



Download Request: Current Category: (376)
Time Of Request: Sunday, November 25, 2018  15:28:55 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY
STANFORD, CA 30309


Terms: ((((refugee OR refugees) AND (United States OR America) AND (Africa))))


Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers;US Law Reviews and Journals, Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Company Profiles and Directories
Combined Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers;US Law Reviews and Journals, Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Company Profiles and Directories
Project ID: 


1 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 12, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.N. Official Praises Cuban Aid for Refugees

BYLINE: Reuters 

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, May 11

The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Sadako Ogata, praised the Cuban government today for giving asylum in recent decades to thousands of people, most fleeing conflict and political persecution in Latin America and Africa.
"By allowing so many refugees to stay in their country, Cubans have given the world a powerful message of solidarity and understanding," Mrs. Ogata said in a speech at Havana University during the first visit by a United Nations high commissioner for refugees to the Communist-ruled Caribbean island. 
 Since coming to power in 1959, President Fidel Castro's government has provided refuge to thousands of opponents of right-wing dictatorships around Latin America as well as to victims of conflicts in Africa.
"Cuba has a very important tradition of giving asylum and protection to refugees from many parts of the world," Mrs. Ogata added. "I would like to acknowledge and praise its openness and generosity."
She said that Cuba had given "some of the most farsighted examples of how to address and resolve refugee problems," and added that she was "particularly impressed by the opportunities provided to refugees to have access to public services, including support for those needing special care because of the severe physical scars left by war."
She urged Cuba, however, to sign a 1951 United Nations convention and 1967 protocol on refugee status.
"The system established by these international treaties would be greatly strengthened by the full participation of Cuba -- the last major country in the Americas not to have acceded to these treaties," she said.
Mrs. Ogata made no reference to Cuba's own emigration problems. Every year, thousands of Cubans try to leave the island illegally to reach the United States, often making the perilous sea voyage in flimsy boats.
That situation has been graphically illustrated by the case of Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban boy who was rescued at sea last November after a migrant boat capsized, killing his mother and nine other Cubans. His Florida-based relatives have been pursuing a legal fight to keep him in the United States, against the wishes of his father, who wants him to return to Cuba.  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company

2 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

July 11, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OVER THE YEARS, U.S. REFUGEE POLICY HAS BEEN A REFLECTION OF THE WORLD'S;
POLITICS.Freedom's March;
Part 2 of a series;
REFUGEES AND RECOVERY

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 709 words

 
Refugees who want to seek freedom in the United States have had to hope that their quests meshed with American policies.
Though the Albanian Kosovar exodus has drawn rare attention, the United States has had a policy of admitting refugees for 50 years, starting with displaced Europeans in the aftermath of World War II.
At its best, says Washington University's Stephen Legomsky, it's based on a humanitarian goal of relieving suffering and a policy aim of sending the message that human rights must be respected.
"Refugee policy is a statement that we want to foster freedom around the world," says Legomsky, whose textbook on the subject is the most widely used in law schools nationwide. But defining freedom and choosing among the millions of worldwide refugees -- especially during the Cold War -- has involved political judgments about the national interest. 
"Refugee policy was very foreign policy-driven," Legomsky says. "It was highly politicized."
Those who fled communism at great risk were of value in the propaganda war with the Soviet Union. And so the big flows accepted by the United States were from Cuba, Indochina and the Soviet Union or its satellites. People escaping oppression from states friendly to America, such as El Salvador, Guatemala and Chile, or those from African nations not seen as pivotal in the East-West struggle, were rarely admitted.
Until 1980, the United States admitted refugees on a crisis-by-crisis basis. The Refugee Act of that year required the president to set a ceiling each year for refugees with "a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion."
Two communist-related flows beginning around that time -- Vietnamese refugees and Soviet Jews -- dominated until the mid-1990s. That means most of the refugees to the United States came from countries producing a tiny portion of the world's refugees, while scant attention was given to vast areas accounting for 80 percent, including Africa, South Asia and Latin America.
That's because U.S. officials have favored those persecuted for political beliefs -- and certain views at that -- as opposed to, for instance, those fearful because of racial conflict.
Gender was not even mentioned in the 1980 act, although most refugees around the world are female, with many men killed or fighting in conflicts. The exclusion of gender has led to confusion over whether the fear of female genital mutilation justifies refugee status.
After the Soviet collapse, the United States has accepted a more diverse pool of refugees, but fewer.
The number of nations from which refugees are eligible has expanded. Africa's allotment, for example, doubled to 12,000 refugees this year upon lobbying by the Congressional Black Caucus.
"With the end of the Cold War, regional conflicts and ethnic conflicts have created a whole new regime of refugees," says Mark Franken, director of refugee services at the United States Catholic Conference, largest of the nine private agencies that resettle refugees under contract with the State Department.
"Refugee policy was and will forever be a tool of foreign policy, but my view is in recent years it has placed more emphasis on the humanitarian aspect of refugees."
Sparked by the Yugoslav wars, Eastern Europe is now the dominant source of refugees, led by Bosnians. The number of refugees admitted to the United States has dropped to 78,000 annually, though that will be bumped up 20,000 this year by Albanian Kosovars. That's fewer than half in some previous years.
The decrease runs counter to a gradual rise in the worldwide number of refugees. Some worry that America's political and financial will to welcome refugees may erode without the impetus of a Cold War. But the compelling plight of the Kosovars may rekindle interest, says Leonard Glickman, who heads the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. Glickman said he and leaders of other national agencies are discussing how to build on the recent outpouring of support.
"What we want," he said, "is to take that public reaction, which has been so extraordinarily generous, to the administration and reverse years of declining refugee admissions."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

4 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 10, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Stoked by Ethnic Conflict, Refugee Numbers Swell

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 9

The spread of ethnic conflict since the end of the cold war has pushed the number of refugees to 44 million people, or more than one in every 130 inhabitants of the globe, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported today.
The number of people qualifying as refugees because they have been driven across an international frontier has climbed steadily from 2.5 million in 1970 to 19.7 million today, taking into account the recent mass exodus from the tiny African state of Burundi. In addition, roughly 24 million people have been forced into exile within their own countries. 
 The figures were presented by the High Commissioner, Sadako Ogata, in a report titled "The State of the World's Refugees -- the Challenge of Protection."
 
Intervention for Prevention
 The increase occurred despite the return of some 2.4 million refugees to their countries of origin during 1992.
"The massive number of people on the move has weakened international solidarity and endangered the time honored tradition of granting asylum to those in genuine need of protection," the report says. "The traditional system of protecting refugees has come dangerously close to breakdown."
The crisis is forcing the refugee agency to expand its mandate to help not just refugees forced across frontiers but also internally displaced people to prevent their becoming refugees.
While insisting on refugees' right to asylum in foreign countries, Mrs. Ogata said that preventing people from becoming refugees lies in the "realms of peaceful resolution of conflict, respect for human rights, economic development, stable participatory government, a fair and independent judiciary and tolerance for diversity."
But the agency, which expects to spend $1.3 billion on the care and protection of refugees this year, says that political solutions cannot substitute for helping those who need assistance.
 
Iran Tops List
 In particular, Mrs. Ogata warned that Security Council trade sanctions against such countries as Iraq and parts of the former Yugoslavia are exacerbating the plight of the people.
Asia still has the largest number of refugees with some 7.2 million last year, although that figure is down from 8.6 million in 1991. Africa follows with 5.4 million refugees, while Europe is now in third place with 3.6 million, largely a result of the fighting in the Balkans. The number of refugees in Latin America, mainly the result of the civil wars in Central America, has dropped below 1 million.
Iran is currently granting asylum to the largest number of refugees in the world, a total of 4.1 million, including 2.9 million Afghans and 1.2 million dissident Iraqi Kurds and Shiite Muslims. It is followed by Pakistan with 1.6 million Afghans and Malawi, with about 1 million refugees fleeing the civil war in neighboring Mozambique.
The report highlights the growing reluctance of industrialized countries to accept refugees, listing Austria, Canada, Germany, the United States and Britain among countries that are tightening asylum laws.
 
Germany Feels Effects
 In 1983, only 100,000 people asked for asylum in Western Europe, North America, Australia and Japan. But by 1992 the number had risen to 800,000. Over the same period the number of asylum-seekers arriving in Western Europe climbed from 30,000 a year to over 680,000. Germany has been the most seriously affected, with the number of asylum seekers rising from 121,000 in 1989 to 438,000 in 1992. Although Bonn is tightening its asylum laws, Germany remains the industrial country with the most refugees, providing asylum to 827,000 at the end of 1992. So far the numbers of refugees to Western Europe from the East have been lower than expected.
 In the United States the total number of refugees declined slightly, falling from 482,000 in 1991 to 473,000 last year.
The report says that the majority of asylum seekers are refused refugee status, though most manage to stay on illegally or under special dispensations. Only 20 percent of asylum-seekers were accepted by European Community countries in 1991, but about 80 percent remained in those states.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Across Border" tracks number of refugees forced from their countries sinc 1976. (Source: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

5 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

 March 15, 1979, Thursday, Final Edition

 Administration Officials Urge Law Change To Widen Diversity of Refugees Admitted

BYLINE:  By Warren Brown, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION:  First Section; A21

LENGTH: 518 words

A revision of U.S. refugee laws would widen the diversity of the refugee population admitted to this country without necessarily increasing the number of refugees, Carter administration officials said yesterday.
"Until now our refugee laws have hampered our ability to accommodate the demands for resettlement in the United States in anything but amakeshift way," said Dick Clark, a former U.S. senator who ahs been nominated by President Carter to become U.S. coordinator of refugee affairs.
Clark said the geographic and ideological criteria of current refugee laws are inherently discriminatory because "they exclude many refugees, particularly from the Western Hemisphere (Latin America) and Africa." 
For example, he said only people fleeing communist governments or countries in the Middle East are classified as refugees under existing U.S. laws.  The statutes ignore the plight of persons escaping persecution under right wing governments, or of those fleeing racism or civil war in Africa, he said.
"As a result, over the past 23 years we have repeatedly had to deny needy refugees," said Clark, one of four administration officials testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday on behalf of legislation designed to overhaul current U.S. refugee laws.
The legislation, which is expected to increase controversy over an already emotional issue, was fashioned by the administration in conjunction with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr. (D-N. J.), chairmen of the Senate and House Judiciary committees, and Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman (D-M. Y.), chairwoman of the House subcommittee on immigration, refugees and international law.
Kennedy, Rodino and Holtzman jointly introduced the bill Tuesday.
Expand the definition of "refugee" to include any person coutside of his or her country who is unwilling or unable to return to that country because of persecution or a wellfounded fear of persecution because of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion."
Establish new rules and procedures designed to admit refugees to the United States on a more equitable and orderly basis.
Raise the ceiling for the "normal flow" of refugees to the United States from 17,400 to 50,000 annually.
Limit the U.S. attorney general's parole authority -- frequently used to admit large groups of refugees outside the courrent statutory ceiling -- to its intended use, the admission of individual refugees on an emergency basis.
The Judiciary Committee hearing-yesterday indicated that much of the opposition to the legislation probably will be generated by the proposals to expand the definition of "refugee" and to raise the "normal flow" ceiling.
But Clark said in response to panel questions that the legislation "clearly does not" encourage a massive increase in refugees to the United States.  In fact, he said, there may be no increase at all.
"The president may also determine to admit fewer than 50,000 refugees in a given fiscal year -- letting the unused numbers lapse," Clarke said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

6 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 3, 2017 Friday  
Late Edition - Final

For Some Stranded Somali Refugees, 'Friend of America' Can Be a Deadly Label

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN. 
Follow Jeffrey Gettleman on Twitter @gettleman .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1171 words

NAIROBI, Kenya -- Ismail Ali Ibrahim gave away everything he owned: his bed, his sheets, his shirts, his pots, his pans, his plates, even his house.
He didn't care. He was going to America. 
  But this week, he remained 7,000 miles away, marooned with more than 100 other Somali refugees in a spartan transit center in central Nairobi that smelled of nervous sweat.
  Mr. Ibrahim and many of his displaced comrades had been waiting more than two decades to be resettled in the United States and were supposed to fly to America this week. But their hopes were crushed by President Trump's executive order to freeze the refugee flow into the United States for at least four months.
  More than 25,000 refugees from Somalia, one of the poorest, hungriest, war-torn countries on earth, were in the pipeline to be resettled in the United States. 
  Mr. Ibrahim was much closer than most -- so close that, with his ticket, paperwork and bag all zipped up, the thought of it made his voice quiver. He had waited 26 long years for this, living in a sweltering, crowded, disease-ridden refugee camp along the Kenya-Somalia border that is the opposite of hope.
  Now his worst fears are shaping up. The Somali refugees who had already been extensively vetted and approved by several American government agencies will most likely be bused back to the camps. Many said that they feared for their lives and that their situation was actually worse than it had been before they came so close to leaving.
  ''Trump shocked us,'' Mr. Ibrahim said.
  Most of them are now broke, having just two weeks ago given away their worldly possessions in a spree of happiness to friends less fortunate. But more worrisome, many refugees said as they gathered under the shade of a mango tree at the transit center, was the risk that they could be labeled ''friends of America.'' That's a dangerous tag in a poorly policed refugee camp crawling with Islamic militants.
  ''The Shabab will be suspicious of us,'' said Deck Abdi Korriyow, another refugee, referring to the militant group that has slaughtered thousands of people across eastern Africa. ''They don't want anyone resettled to the U.S. They'll think we've been giving information to the Americans.''
  Several men around him vigorously nodded when he added, ''Who knows what will happen to us next?''
  Kenya is home to hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees and many are treated terribly -- constantly harassed, arrested, often beaten, discriminated against, kept in large camps or locked in a soccer stadium during police roundups, and sometimes they have even disappeared. Many Kenyans see Somalia the way much of the world does: as a terrorist threat.
  So the refugees have set their sights on a faraway dream. It's called America. The United States runs a vigorous resettlement program, taking in thousands of Somalis each year. Being one of them is like holding a winning lottery ticket and it generates a lot of envy.
  Some of the refugees said another reason they dreaded going back to the camps was because they knew some of their neighbors would barely be able to contain their glee that the resettlement had not worked out.
  ''The people against me will be happy,'' Mr. Ibrahim said.
  The more than 100 approved refugees here are now stuck because they don't have proper papers to walk the streets of Nairobi. They were supposed to be walking the streets of Atlanta, Buffalo, Des Moines and St. Louis by now.
  They aren't allowed to leave the transit center, which is in Nairobi's old Indian quarter; it was supposed to be their last stop. The gate here is large and unmarked. Security is serious; many of the refugees who pass through here are hunted in their homelands.
  On Wednesday, the center was crowded but relatively quiet. The refugees seemed bored. Somali women in full veils lay on the sidewalk on their backs. Young men lounged in a row of scratched up chairs and were not even talking to one another.
  When a chestnut-size mango fell from the tree, a little boy pounced on it, clearly hungry.
  The men spoke of ''the stress.''
  ''Am I worried?'' asked Salad Rage Saleh, thin and antsy. ''Ever since I've been born I've been worried.''
  American officials did not address the fears of Shabab reprisals directly. One State Department official said that the government would continue to show compassion to refugees but that it was also important to protect American citizens.
  Refugee officials said the Shabab fears could be real, but that some refugees also played up such concerns in an attempt to delay or stop their return to the camps, which can be depressing on a good day.
  Life for many Somali refugees means confronting famine, anarchy, pestilence and death on a daily basis. Ever since the government collapsed in 1991, Somalia has been stuck in perpetual crisis.
  One set of three brothers at the transit camp fled Somalia after their parents were killed 25 years ago, trudging across the Kenya border as three lost souls. For more than a quarter-century, the brothers had been living together in a small makeshift house in a refugee camp, usually jobless and surviving off the monthly United Nations rations, which they said had been cut down to seven pounds of grain, one cup of oil and a bottle capful of salt. The Kenyans have been threatening to close this camp because of terrorism fears.
  The brothers had just cleared the final medical checks to be resettled in Rhode Island. Ahmed Hassan, the eldest, a quiet man with a red pen in his pocket, spoke proudly of how in recent days they had been ''trained'' to wear jackets, hats and gloves when it was cold.
  While some Americans have said in recent days that they oppose Mr. Trump's block on refugees, others have said it makes them feel safer. Refugee officials in East Africa have been quick to point out that, in the Somalis' case, these refugees are among the most vetted people entering the United States.
  The resettlement process usually takes four to six years to complete and involves database checks, fingerprinting, countless forms and hours of background interviews. The tiny percentage of refugees who make it all the way through are selected because they are considered the most vulnerable of the vulnerable.
  Most will now return to the same squalid camps where they had been living for years. Others in the pipeline will be put on what the State Department calls indefinite hold.
  When this was announced at the transit center on Saturday at a meeting in the yard, several men cried.
  ''It was pretty shattering for me,'' said Lori Seymour, the official with the International Organization for Migration who made the announcement.
  This week, the group spoke of all the things they had been looking forward to in America: security, freedom, pizza, meat, driving a car and seeing buildings made not of sticks, but of ''mirrors and stone,'' as one man put it.
  ''I was even looking forward to paying taxes,'' Mr. Hassan said. ''If you pay taxes, that means you have a job and you're making money, right?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/02/world/africa/trump-refugee-ban-somalia.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ismail Ali Ibrahim, above left, and Salad Rage Saleh are among more than 100 Somali refugees who were ready to resettle in the United States but are now marooned in a transit center in Nairobi, right. There's little to do there but play table soccer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SVEN TORFINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)       

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company

8 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 20, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Yvette Pierpaoli, 60, Aid Worker Who Devoted Life to Refugees

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 332 words

Yvette Pierpaoli, a dynamic French woman who traveled the world seeking to help war widows, displaced persons, land-mine victims, homeless families, street children and other refugees, was one of three aid workers killed on Sunday in an automobile accident near Kukes, Albania. She was 60.
As a European representative of Refugees International, an aid organization, Ms. Pierpaoli had been making trips to the Balkans since last June, when she saw some of the first refugees fleeing Kosovo. 
 "She was a legend in the international refugee community," said Richard C. Holbrooke, chairman of Refugees International, President Clinton's nominee for chief American delegate to the United Nations and a special envoy to the Balkans. "A small woman of incredible strength and enthusiasm, she carried people along with her."
Ms. Pierpaoli's efforts to help people began when she was 19 years old and left France for Cambodia to operate an import-export business there. She undertook aid missions to many countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America, including Thailand, Cambodia, Mali and Niger.
She was forced to leave Cambodia after the Khmer Rouge came to power in 1975, and she retired between travels to a stone house in the village of Serviers in the south of France.
In the 1980's, she founded Tomorrow, a nonprofit foundation that provided seed money for development projects and emergency assistance.
One of her special interests was the plight of Tuareg refugees in the Sahara desert of Mali and Niger. During many visits to these countries, she helped to develop projects for irrigation and raising livestock.
She was a co-founder of Info Birmanie, a European human rights organization focused on Burma.
Ms. Pierpaoli was well known in France, partly through her 1992 autobiography, "Woman of a Thousand Children" (Robert Laffont, Paris).
She is survived by a daughter, Emanuel, who lives in the New York City area, and a son, Oliver, who lives in Paris.        
http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Yvette Pierpaoli

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company

9 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 13, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pulls Out 250 G.I.'s on a Relief Mission

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12

The possibility that an international military force might be sent to aid Rwandan refugees in Central Africa was quickly fading today as the Pentagon announced that it had withdrawn half of the 450 American soldiers sent to the region to prepare for a relief mission, including all of those in Rwanda.
The Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth Bacon, said there appeared to be few reasons left for a relief mission whose scope had already been drastically scaled back as hundreds of thousands of refugees who fled to eastern Zaire two years ago had returned to Rwanda. 
 "The momentum seems to be moving away from an international mission there," Mr. Bacon said at a news conference. "There's been massive repatriation of refugees, and these refugees seem to be in relatively good health."
The announcement came despite a new exodus, as hundreds of thousands of Rwandans abandoned refugee camps in Tanzania. The refugees, however, did not return to Rwanda, but rather headed away from the border. At the same time, another 100,000 refugees have pushed farther west into Zaire, according to the United Nations.
Canada, which has taken the lead in organizing the relief effort, has scheduled a meeting in New York on Friday for officials of nations who have pledged help to decide whether a military mission is still necessary. Raymond Chretien, Canada's Ambassador to the United States and a special United Nations envoy to Central Africa, said at the United Nations today that the meeting would be "crucial to the future of the force."
Mr. Chretien said that while the refugee situation around Rwanda remained fluid, the opportunity for an effective international mission would pass if action were not taken soon.
The State Department issued a statement today saying that the United States remained "deeply concerned" about the refugees still in Zaire, as well as the fighting between Zairian rebel groups, the Zairian Army and Hutu militia groups that fled Rwanda. But it made no mention of any international relief effort.
In the month since President Clinton announced that the United States was ready to contribute as many as 4,000 American troops to a relief mission, the willingness to conduct an operation has waned. Once refugees began leaving Zaire for Rwanda, the original plan to send more than 10,000 troops to the region was scaled back to one with only 1,000.
Late last month, the United States endorsed a more modest mission to deliver food to refugees by airdrops.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

11 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 16, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
A 'Benefactors' Benefit Lives Up to Title

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and David W. Dunlap

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

In 1933, at the urging of Albert Einstein, the International Rescue Committee was founded to help refugees from Hitler's Germany. In 1985, it is aiding refugees from Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Iran, Poland and other countries. 
The organization has refugee camps in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and the United States. It provides medical help and food first, resettlement programs later.
All this costs money - last year more than $16 million was raised in private donations, grants and contributions from other agencies. On Friday, the organization held a benefit at the opening preview of ''Benefactors,'' at the Brooks Atkinson Theater on West 47th Street, and raised almost $40,000.
The committee currently aids 7,000 new immigrants nationwide and about 400 refugees locally, helping them find jobs, schools and places to live.
''New York has a higher concentration of political refugees than any other city except Paris,'' said Leo Cherne, an economist and the committee's chairman.
''They have the kind of drive and energy that those of us who are comfortable have lost. In the crassest economic terms, they truly enrich our society.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

15 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD: Q & A: U.S. Refugee Coordinator;
What the World Owes 12 Million Refugees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

THE world has about 12 million refugees, people who fear persecution in their homeland, including many who have been uprooted by war. The war in Afghanistan created the world's largest refugee population, some five million people who have lived in Pakistan and Iran. Though civil war may continue in Afghanistan, the Soviet withdrawal is raising hopes for repatriation.
But most refugees are not going anywhere, either back to their own countries or to settle permanently in a third country. In fact, their numbers are growing in some parts of the world. In East Asia, a new exodus from Vietnam is straining the hospitality of other countries. In Africa, more than 300,000 Somali refugees, fleeing civil war, have crossed the border into Ethiopia in the last two months. 
Though America may still be a haven and ''a brilliant light beam of freedom,'' as President Reagan put it last week at the Republican convention, the country decided long ago that it could not accept all the refugees who want to come here. What then is the United States' obligation to the uprooted? Robert Pear, a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times, discussed refugees with Jonathan Moore, the United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs.
Question. You wrote recently that ''the essence of government is making necessary choices between competing uses of public resources.'' Are you saying that despite the words on the Statue of Liberty, the budget makes choices about refugees necessary?
Answer. Absolutely. Getting authorization to bring in larger numbers of refugees is easy. What's difficult is to get the funds to pay for them. They don't come in for free.
But the real problem is not in admissions of refugees to the United States. It's in assistance to refugees who will never come to the United States and probably never be resettled in any other country - people who are in refugee camps in a situation of first asylum, who are in desperate suffering and deprivation and danger all around the world. Less than 1 percent of the 12 million refugees in the world are going to resettle in a third country.
 
Falling Behind
The United States is the leader in the world in overall terms of helping refugees. Nevertheless, we have been slipping recently in our contributions, and on a per capita basis, have slipped from fifth to ninth.
We give approximately, on a per capita basis, a little less than a dollar a year.
 
The Nordic countries and
Switzerland are giving a great deal more per capita.
And in terms of admitting refugees, the United States now ranks fifth in the world behind Australia, Canada and the Nordic countries.
Q. Hong Kong, Malaysia and Thailand, which have been the first stopping points for refugees to be resettled elsewhere, are tightening up admissions, even closing their doors.
A. It is a very great reason for concern. It is the responsibility of the United States to emphasize the moral imperative in providing first asylum.
It is also up to the United States to work on longer-range policies that will manage this desperate tension between giving refugees first asylum and overburdening the first-asylum nations.
Q. Is it feasible to consider sending back Indochinese migrants to the countries from which they came?
A. Repatriation programs must be voluntary, and they must be internationally supervised so that reprisals are avoided. But in the long run, repatriation has got to be an important part of any strategy which will achieve stability. We've got to distinguish between refugees who meet the international definition and those who are economic or illegal immigrants.
Q. Some Southeast Asian countries argue that they are tightening up because the United States has not been generous enough in resettling people.
A. Actually, the United States has now settled over 820,000 refugees from Southeast Asia. In 1986, the United States took 19,000 refugees from Thailand; in 1987, 20,000. This year, we will take more than 23,000 refugees from Thailand.
Nevertheless, there are still large numbers of refugees in Thailand, over 100,000, including many who have been there for three to five years without being resettled. That makes first-asylum countries, in this case Thailand, frustrated and anguished.
We have a very interesting dynamic whereby funds for admissions purposes tend to crowd out funds for assistance purposes. The politics and the governmental processes of admissions are more intense and more intimate, because many refugee families who have been resettled in the United States want to be reunited with relatives who are still in refugee camps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cambodian refugees in Thailand (Magnum/ Ian Berry); map showing number of refugees throughout the world (Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees)

TYPE: Interview

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

16 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 8, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

The Budget Makes Refugee Choices Necessary

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 316 words

To the Editor:
I cannot agree more with the compassion and humanitarian purpose reflected in ''Cruel, and Needless, Choice of Refugees'' (editorial, Feb. 17), on Vietnamese refugees being turned back by Thailand, the expected upsurge of Soviet Jewish and Armenian refugees, and the State Department's consideration of reallocating some slots for Southeast Asian and other refugees to accommodate those from the Soviet Union.
Where humanitarian needs are concerned, all choices are cruel. But it is wrong to characterize such policy decisions as needless. Our problem is a lack of funding, and the essence of government is making necessary choices between competing uses of public resources.
The Administration agrees that we should meet the needs of refugee admissions from Southeast Asia and the needs of people allowed to leave the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. We must also provide relief, assistance and protection to millions of refugees in Africa, the Near East, Central America and Southeast Asia, many in life-threatening situations who never will have the chance to resettle in any third country. It is sad that the Department of State does not have an unlimited budget for these or other humanitarian purposes, compelling as they are.
In suggesting that we simply use emergency authority to raise the refugee admissions ceilings, you overlook the controlling element of budgetary resources. Refugee admissions cost money. The money for new, unpredictable admissions flows is not available. For the fiscal years 1988 and 1989, the Congressional leadership and the Administration have concluded a compact that caps the Federal budget, not excluding its humanitarian programs. This is the reality and the challenge that we confront, requiring absolutely necessary choices.
 
JONATHAN MOORE
United States Coordinator
for Refugee Affairs
  Washington, Feb. 27, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

18 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 2, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SECOND-CLASS REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Arthur C. Helton ;
Arthur C. Helton is director of the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

In the last six months, 18 people have been indicted for their efforts to provide refuge for Central Americans seeking asylum in the United States. The people involved in this ''sanctuary movement'' - it is a grassroots effort, organized largely by church groups in the Southwest - argue that political considerations here are determining whether or not those seeking asylum are able to obtain refuge from political violence and persecution at home. Their argument has undeniable force.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed a generous and compassionate approach to refugee problems. The rhetoric has not, however, always been matched by actual accomplishments, and in practice people fleeing Communist-dominated regimes have been favored over those fleeing merely authoritarian or totalitarian regimes. 
The Refugee Act of 1980 grants refugee status to anyone seeking to enter the United States because of a ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or social standing. In theory, at least, the standard is nondiscriminatory.
In practice, however, it has been badly distorted. Our overseas admissions program, in particular, falls far short in meeting the needs of those who apply for asylum. The United States has agreed to admit up to 70,000 extra refugees in 1985 - above and beyond the normal ceiling of
 270,000. The problem lies in the Government's stipulations about where the 70,000 should come from.  In the last year, more than one million people have fled from El Salvador and Guatemala. Similar displacements have occurred in Afghanistan and Ethiopia. Yet in 1985, we will accept no more than 3,000 refugees from Latin America, 5,000 from the Middle East and 3,000 from Africa - with the remaining 59,000 coming from the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and Indochina.  Those are the official ''ceilings''; actual admissions are even more imbalanced. In 1984, for example, only 93 Salvadorans and no Guatemalans were admitted as refugees.
Still further ideological discrimination confronts those asylum seekers who manage to enter the country. In 1984, only three of 761 Guatemalan applicants (1 percent) were granted asylum; only 328 of 13,373 Salvadorans (3 percent) were. This contrasts sharply with the rates for Bulgarians (52 percent), Hungarians (28 percent) and Russians (51 percent).
Why the inequity? Consider the case of El Salvador. As a matter of foreign policy, the executive branch (which includes the immigration authorities) has every incentive to characterize the political climate in El Salvador as an improving situation - an image that would be jeopardized if we were granting asylum to large numbers of Salvadorans. A report prepared in 1982 for circulation within the Immigration and Naturalization Service conceded that only those Salvadorans with a ''classic textbook case'' have any hope of being admitted as political refugees. Frequently, even that is not enough.  All Salvadorans and Guatemalans fleeing war are not necessarily entitled to asylum under the standards of the Refugee Act. They are, however, entitled to fair and unbiased consideration of their cases. What they face, instead, is a stern and unlawful prejudgment against their claims - and in practice the overwhelming majority of them are characterized as ''economic migrants,'' regardless of their particular circumstances.  Is there a more humane alternative, short of a revision of the asylum law? A powerful argument can be made that Salvadorans and Guatemalans fleeing the arbitrary risks of war, even if not eligible for asylum, should be granted ''safe haven'' until the hostilities subside. Such protection, which could be made available through either legislation or executive action, has been offered in the past to Poles, Afghans and Nicaraguans. It should be made available across the board.  The sanctuary movement is a testament to the unfulfilled promise of the Refugee Act of 1980. The ultimate answer cannot, of course, be continued disregard for the law. Rather, the law must be applied to all in the nondiscriminatory and humane spirit in which it was written.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

19 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times - International Edition

February 2, 2017 Thursday

For Stranded Somali Refugees, 'Friend of America' Is a Deadly Label

BYLINE: JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1192 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

ABSTRACT
After waiting years to come to the United States, displaced refugees fear returning to extreme poverty and reprisal from anti-American militant groups. 

FULL TEXT
NAIROBI, Kenya - Ismail Ali Ibrahim gave away everything he owned: his bed, his sheets, his shirts, his pots, his pans, his plates, even his house.
He didn't care. He was going to America.
But this week, he remained 7,000 miles away, marooned with more than 100 other Somali refugees in a spartan transit center in central Nairobi that smelled of nervous sweat.
Mr. Ibrahim and many of his displaced comrades had been waiting more than two decades to be resettled in the United States and were supposed to fly to America this week. But their hopes were crushed by President Trump's executive order to freeze the refugee flow into the United States for at least four months.
More than 25,000 refugees from Somalia, one of the poorest, hungriest, war-torn countries on earth, were in the pipeline to be resettled in the United States. 
Mr. Ibrahim was much closer than most - so close that, with his ticket, paperwork and bag all zipped up, the thought of it made his voice quiver. He had waited 26 long years for this, living in a sweltering, crowded, disease-ridden refugee camp along the Kenya-Somalia border that is the opposite of hope.
Now his worst fears are shaping up. The Somali refugees who had already been extensively vetted and approved by several American government agencies will most likely be bused back to the camps. Many said that they feared for their lives and that their situation was actually worse than it had been before they came so close to leaving.
"Trump shocked us," Mr. Ibrahim said.
Most of them are now broke, having just two weeks ago given away their worldly possessions in a spree of happiness to friends less fortunate. But more worrisome, many refugees said as they gathered under the shade of a mango tree at the transit center, was the risk that they could be labeled "friends of America." That's a dangerous tag in a poorly policed refugee camp crawling with Islamic militants.
"The Shabab will be suspicious of us," said Deck Abdi Korriyow, another refugee, referring to the militant group that has slaughtered thousands of people across eastern Africa. "They don't want anyone resettled to the U.S. They'll think we've been giving information to the Americans."
Several men around him vigorously nodded when he added, "Who knows what will happen to us next?"
Kenya is home to hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees and many are treated terribly - constantly harassed, arrested, often beaten, discriminated against, kept in large camps or locked in a soccer stadium during police roundups, and sometimes they have even disappeared. Many Kenyans see Somalia the way much of the world does: as a terrorist threat.
So the refugees have set their sights on a faraway dream. It's called America. The United States runs a vigorous resettlement program, taking in thousands of Somalis each year. Being one of them is like holding a winning lottery ticket and it generates a lot of envy.
Some of the refugees said another reason they dreaded going back to the camps was because they knew some of their neighbors would barely be able to contain their glee that the resettlement had not worked out.
"The people against me will be happy," Mr. Ibrahim said.
The more than 100 approved refugees here are now stuck because they don't have proper papers to walk the streets of Nairobi. They were supposed to be walking the streets of Atlanta, Buffalo, Des Moines and St. Louis by now.
They aren't allowed to leave the transit center, which is in Nairobi's old Indian quarter; it was supposed to be their last stop. The gate here is large and unmarked. Security is serious; many of the refugees who pass through here are hunted in their homelands.
On Wednesday, the center was crowded but relatively quiet. The refugees seemed bored. Somali women in full veils lay on the sidewalk on their backs. Young men lounged in a row of scratched up chairs and were not even talking to one another.
When a chestnut-size mango fell from the tree, a little boy pounced on it, clearly hungry.
The men spoke of "the stress."
"Am I worried?" asked Salad Rage Saleh, thin and antsy. "Ever since I've been born I've been worried."
American officials did not address the fears of Shabab reprisals directly. One State Department official said that the government would continue to show compassion to refugees but that it was also important to protect American citizens.
Refugee officials said the Shabab fears could be real, but that some refugees also played up such concerns in an attempt to delay or stop their return to the camps, which can be depressing on a good day.
Life for many Somali refugees means confronting famine, anarchy, pestilence and death on a daily basis. Ever since the government collapsed in 1991, Somalia has been stuck in perpetual crisis.
One set of three brothers at the transit camp fled Somalia after their parents were killed 25 years ago, trudging across the Kenya border as three lost souls. For more than a quarter-century, the brothers had been living together in a small makeshift house in a refugee camp, usually jobless and surviving off the monthly United Nations rations, which they said had been cut down to seven pounds of grain, one cup of oil and a bottle capful of salt. The Kenyans have been threatening to close this camp because of terrorism fears.
The brothers had just cleared the final medical checks to be resettled in Rhode Island. Ahmed Hassan, the eldest, a quiet man with a red pen in his pocket, spoke proudly of how in recent days they had been "trained" to wear jackets, hats and gloves when it was cold.
While some Americans have said in recent days that they oppose Mr. Trump's block on refugees, others have said it makes them feel safer. Refugee officials in East Africa have been quick to point out that, in the Somalis' case, these refugees are among the most vetted people entering the United States.
The resettlement process usually takes four to six years to complete and involves database checks, fingerprinting, countless forms and hours of background interviews. The tiny percentage of refugees who make it all the way through are selected because they are considered the most vulnerable of the vulnerable.
Most will now return to the same squalid camps where they had been living for years. Others in the pipeline will be put on what the State Department calls indefinite hold.
When this was announced at the transit center on Saturday at a meeting in the yard, several men cried.
"It was pretty shattering for me," said Lori Seymour, the official with the International Organization for Migration who made the announcement.
This week, the group spoke of all the things they had been looking forward to in America: security, freedom, pizza, meat, driving a car and seeing buildings made not of sticks, but of "mirrors and stone," as one man put it.
"I was even looking forward to paying taxes," Mr. Hassan said. "If you pay taxes, that means you have a job and you're making money, right?"
Follow Jeffrey Gettleman on Twitter @gettleman.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

23 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

January 29, 2003 Wednesday  
 Late Edition - Final 

U.S. Security Concerns Trap Thousands in Kenyan Camp 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1462 words

DATELINE: KAKUMA, Kenya, Jan. 24  

Behind the barbed wire, in this vast, ramshackle refugee camp, thousands of people fleeing war-torn countries are desperately waiting for their tickets to America.
     The Immigration and Naturalization Service has already approved about 17,000 refugees here for resettlement in the United States. Yet most of them have languished for months, battling hunger and crime in camps as the United States has struggled to streamline security measures introduced in the aftermath of Sept. 11. 
 Backlogs in the new security and fraud checks -- which require the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. to review the names of refugees fleeing terrorist hot spots -- have delayed the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees worldwide, particularly those from predominantly Muslim countries in Africa and the Middle East.
The State Department, which oversees the refugee program, says no terrorists have been found among the refugees screened and approved by the I.N.S., and officials say they are trying to speed up the process.  
But the cumbersome procedures are already taking their toll. Only about 27,000 of the 70,000 refugees expected to arrive in the United States last year actually made it -- the lowest number in 25 years.
"Sometimes, I think America has forgotten us," said Jacob Aciek Ayol, a 23-year-old refugee from Sudan, who said he had been approved by the I.N.S. before Sept. 11. "They approved us so long ago. We have been dreaming of America, but we are still here, and we don't know what to do."
Meanwhile, they wait. In this dismal camp, where bullets fly at nightfall, hundreds of refugees have been waiting for security clearances for a year and a half. This month, a Sudanese woman who had been approved by the I.N.S was raped and shot to death as she awaited her family's security clearance, officials here say. 
Seventy percent of children here are already at risk of malnutrition, and the food situation is growing worse. The World Food Program recently announced that it would have to cut rations, unless more donations come in, even though most people already eat only once a day.
The story of the stranded refugees highlights the Bush administration's struggle to balance security concerns in the post-Sept. 11 era with America's longstanding commitment to refugees fleeing persecution and immigrants seeking better lives. 
American officials acknowledge that the new security procedures have created some hardships for innocent people, but they say the terrorist attacks on the United States made it clear that a tougher approach to screening refugees was needed to ensure public safety. 
The new measures, in addition to the security checks, limit to 35 the number of refugees allowed to travel on any given flight to the United States, to allow time for fingerprinting at American airports. 
They also call for scrutiny of people applying for refugee status as close relatives of refugees already living in America. Investigators say they have found people misrepresenting themselves as relatives in 40 percent of approved family reunification cases worldwide. 
But here in East Africa, it is clearly the surging demand for security checks that has created most of the backlog. 
The mounting requests for background checks quickly flooded the F.B.I. and C.I.A, where workers must compare thousands of refugees with reputed terrorists of similar ages and names, officials say. 
The officials also blame poor interagency communication for many of the delays. Computer systems in the law enforcement agencies, they say, do not readily communicate with the systems at the State Department, which is ultimately responsible for refugee cases.
The government says it has made changes, including hiring more staff members, improving computer links and purchasing more fingerprinting machines.
"We truly are as concerned as anyone about delays that impact on the processing and admission of refugees eligible to come into this country," said a senior State Department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
"Over the past year, there has been a significant increase in the amount of work that has had to be done in terms of background checks," the official said in a telephone interview from Washington. "There's a tremendous demand in terms of human resources.
"As with any new set of measures, implementation wasn't always as smooth as we would have wished," he said.
Refugee workers here and abroad agree that the pace of resettlement is slowly picking up, although only a small fraction of the 50,000 refugee slots allotted for the current fiscal year have arrived so far.
They remain concerned. Delays breed delays. Medical clearances expire while refugees await background checks, and then they have to be renewed. Security clearances hold up even those relatives who are not suspected of being terrorists.
Entire families, including young children and elderly women, must wait when a security check is required for a man in a given family, even though the children and elderly women are not considered security risks.
The processing of a refugee destined for the United States, which once took about six months here, can now take more than a year. In recent months, the United Nations has begun referring particularly urgent cases to Canada and Scandinavian countries because the processing time is shorter.
"We're very much concerned that people are at risk, but also that the United States tradition is at risk," said Robert Carey, vice president of the International Rescue Committee, one of the largest resettlement agencies in the United States. "The United States has traditionally set the lead on the human response to refugees.
"But now there's a lot of concern that immigration functions are being subsumed into enforcement and that humanitarian responses will be ratcheted down in terms of priorities," Mr. Carey said in a telephone interview from New York. "Certainly what we're seeing now would reflect that." 
The challenges involved in screening refugees are plainly visible here in this camp, which sits just south of Kenya's border with Sudan. The relentless sun sears the parched red soil, turning rivers into dry sand and leaving thorn trees, withered cactuses and weary refugees struggling to survive.
About 82,000 refugees live here, and almost all of them would require background checks to be considered for admission to the United States. Most people here have fled Sudan and Somalia, countries long considered breeding grounds for terrorism. 
Kenya is no stranger to organized violence either. Terrorists working in Kenya blew up the American Embassy in 1998 and an Israeli-owned hotel in November. In December, some refugees here -- who were not destined for the United States -- complained that Al Qaeda was operating in the camp.
The accusations were dismissed after an investigation by the United Nations that received assistance from the United States. But I.N.S. officials had to stop processing cases for more than a month, until the allegations about terrorists in the camp were fully investigated. 
Most delays, though, occur during processing of security checks in Washington where officials pore through databases of suspected terrorists and often come up with several names similar to the names of refugees.
Sometimes it is clear that the refugee in question is not the terrorist in the F.B.I. database: if the suspected terrorist is 25 years old and the refugee is 50, for instance.
But often it is not easy to make that calculation. Officials in Washington put holds on refugees who have similar names and dates of birth that fall close to those of terrorist suspects on file.
The refugees who fall into that category wait in limbo, including several hundred Sudanese young men known as the Lost Boys. The boys fled their country's fractious civil war more than a decade ago, and the United States agreed to admit more than 3,000.
But more than 300 who were approved by I.N.S. for admission to America before Sept. 11 are still waiting for security clearances, according to the United Nations, which runs this camp.
Peter Akoijak, 26, said he was approved by I.N.S. in August 2001. Jacob Chol Dau, 19, said he was approved that same month. Chol Mamiir Paulino was approved a month later, just before the Sept. 11 attacks. No one knows what has happened to their cases and whether they will ever be allowed to leave here.
When word spread that an American visitor had arrived in the camp, the Sudanese young men flew on their shabby bicycles, hoping for some good news. They waited for hours in the blistering sun, only to discover that the visitor was a journalist, not an official.
The young men conferred with one another and decided that even this visitor was better than nothing. "Sing our song in America," they begged. "Tell them we are still here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A woman sweeping the entrance of her house in the Sudanese section of the Kakuma camp. About 82,000 refugees live at the camp.; Sudanese refugees in a classroom in the Kakuma refugee camp in northern Kenya. Many are waiting for the outcome of American security checks.; A Sudanese man outside his house. Many at Kakuma were among the Lost Boys, orphans who banded together to survive war in Sudan. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)      

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

24 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

October 3, 2003 Friday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Refugee Numbers Decline 

BYLINE:  By JOHN FILES 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2  

For the second year in a row, the number of refugees settling in the United States fell to less than half of the government's projections, again in large part because of stricter guidelines for security clearances that were instituted after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
     The State Department said on Thursday that about 28,000 refugees had been settled in the United States since Sept. 30, 2002, with more than half of them arriving in the last four months.  
The government had hoped to settle 70,000 refugees by the end of the fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30. In fiscal year 2002, only about 27,000 of the 70,000 expected actually arrived, the lowest number in 25 years. 
 Tens of thousands of refugees approved for resettlement in the United States have been stranded in camps in Africa, Asia and the Middle East as officials struggle to reduce the backlog of security clearances, which include F.B.I. and C.I.A. reviews of names of refugees fleeing countries considered breeding grounds for terrorists. The checks have yet to identify a suspected terrorist. 
Refugee interviews have been delayed by civil conflicts and fraud in resettlement claims in West Africa and by concerns that terrorists were operating in refugee camps in East Africa. Africa is one of America's largest sources of refugees. 
Officials in the department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration who oversee the refugee program said this year's shortfall in resettlements was also a result of "positive changes in the world affecting refugee populations," saying that "the dramatic changes in Iraq and Afghanistan are making it possible for Iraqi and Afghan refugees to return to their home countries." Large-scale repatriations are also occurring in Sierra Leone and Angola, officials said.      

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

25 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 6, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Reform Jews Endorse Sanctuary for Refugees

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 5

Reform Jews representing 791 synagogues in the United States and Canada ended a five-day convention here today with a denunciation of racism in South Africa and a call to provide sanctuary for Central American refugees.
About 3,000 delegates attended the 58th biennial convention of the Union of American Hebrews Congregations, which has 1.3 million members in the United States and Canada and is the most liberal Jewish denomination.
Among the resolutions adopted by delegates at the closing session today was one that condemned South Africa's policy of strict racial separation and another that endorsed ''legislation which would temporarily suspend deportations of those fleeing El Salvador and Guatemala and oppressive regimes until they can safely return to their countries of origin.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

26 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

November 18, 2001 Sunday  
Final Edition

Don't Stop Refugee Resettlement

BYLINE: Tom Gerety

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 611 words

 Foreigners come across our borders every day, by boat and plane, in cars and on foot. They come as students, workers, tourists, family and friends. We know that many of them will stay, with or without visas. 
 Every so often one will be here to do harm to the United States. Among the hundreds of thousands who come each year, relatively few -- fewer than 70,000 last year -- are refugees, people who have been certified by officers of our government as fleeing "persecution" on the basis of race, religion or ideas.  
 Late last month it was revealed that on Sept. 11, for the first time since the Cold War, the United States had stopped all refugee travel to the United States. Right now, somewhere in the White House, an assistant to President Bush has a draft letter reauthorizing the admission of refugees. But Bush will not sign the letter until a security clearance is issued by the Justice Department for all those waiting to be admitted. That could take days or months, even years, depending on our "insecurity," our fear, of the small group of desperate people officially certified to have "a well-founded fear of persecution" under the United Nations Convention of 1951. 
 Who are these people? What sort of persecution are they fleeing? Many or most of them are women -- from Afghanistan and Africa, with small children in tow. They have spent months and years in refugee camps in Pakistan or Africa, Europe or Asia. A few are religious refugees from various places around the globe: Jews from Ukraine, Christians and Baha'is from Iran. Many are dissidents whose ideas have seemed threatening to dictators. 
 All of them have been interviewed extensively before receiving approval from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Any hint of a terrorist inclination would have disqualified them long ago. (Lavinia Limon, the head of Immigrant and Refugee Services of America, notes that terrorists have many more efficient ways to get to America than by long stays in refugee camps, testifying over and again to instances of religious or sexual persecution.) 
 Sept. 11 changed many things; all of us accept that. But it should not change everything, as the president said and as so many others have said. Among the things that should not change are America's ideals. And among the ideals that we count as distinctively, even essentially, American is that represented by the Statue of Liberty out in New York Harbor, looking back on the site of our great national catastrophe: the ideal of a haven for the oppressed, the persecuted, those seeking refuge in America from tyranny at home. 
 To hold up the refugees for a few days was understandable and even laudable. Our airports and our towns were not in a position to take in desperately poor people in the midst of a great crisis. But now, as the crisis evolves toward a new sense of vigilance that will hold for many years, we need to return to our most fundamental and symbolic commitments in international law. Shelter for refugees is something America must stand for, in days of crisis and days of calm, in peace as in war. 
 Our churches and charities have already identified places of resettlement for the refugees whose plans were made and approved before Sept. 11. Such organizations as the United States Catholic Conference, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services and the International Rescue Committee have social workers, schools, jobs and housing arranged. 
 It is time for the president to issue his letter of authorization and allow these new Americans to come to the land of the free. 
 The writer is president of Amherst College and a member of the board of the International Rescue Committee. 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The Washington Post

28 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Los Angeles Times

September 20, 2018 Thursday 
Correction Appended  
Home Edition

New refugee quota called 'shameful'; 
State Department officials defend the decision to drastically limit the number.

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON  

Facing backlash over the decision to drastically limit the number of refugees who will be permitted to settle in the United States, State Department officials are attempting to defend the move and soften its impact.
But ultimately, the proposed new quota -- a third of last year's number and an all-time low -- will probably remain the same or even smaller because it fits into President Trump's broader policy, which critics say is aimed at reducing the number of foreign-born people in the United States.
Amid what the United Nations calls the worst refugee crisis since World War II, millions of people have fled war, famine or political repression in the Middle East, Africa and more recently, Central and South America. 
Despite some polls that show general public support for refugees, Trump has been accused of trying to build political capital among his base by stoking fear of immigrants and apathy toward refugees.
Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo announced late Monday the administration's plan to slash the number of refugees accepted in the United States by a third, down to 30,000 from this year's cap of 45,000 and the lowest since the Refugee Act was adopted nearly 40 years ago. It is the second consecutive year the ceiling has been lowered.
Pompeo said the lower goal was made necessary by the backlog of asylum seekers in the United States, numbering 800,000.
The cap reflects "our commitment to protect the most vulnerable around the world while prioritizing the safety and well-being of the American people, as President Trump has directed," Pompeo said.
Barely 24 hours later, the decision was met with a scathing blast of criticism from members of Congress and immigrant-advocacy and human rights groups.
Refugee advocates described the proposed limit as appalling and an affront to front-line countries like Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey that have received millions of refugees.
"The abysmally low refugee cap ... is a shameful abdication of our humanity in the face of the worst refugee crisis in history," said Jennifer Quigley of the Human Rights First advocacy organization. "By setting the lowest refugee cap in history, we have turned our backs not only on those in dire circumstances abroad, but on our own American ideals."
Ryan Mace, refugee specialist at the U.S. branch of Amnesty International, said the new ceiling, compounded by "roadblock after roadblock" for refugees, was an "all-out attack" on refugee resettlement.
Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) was one of several lawmakers, mostly Democratic, who condemned Pompeo's proposal as a cruel move that will only weaken the United States. He said it was part of Trump's determination "to build metaphorical walls" around the country.
The State Department attempted to clarify that the new ceiling was merely a recommendation that would be reviewed by Congress before the White House would sign off.
The Trump administration wants to prevent immigration and floods of refugees by helping improve conditions in the home countries, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Tuesday. At the same time, however, the administration is reducing much of the aid that would fulfill that goal, such as reconstruction money for Syria and Iraq and democracy-building assistance in Central America.
"America is the most generous nation in the entire world," Nauert said. But, she added, "Our pockets are not unlimited."
Limiting refugees is just the latest in a string of anti-immigrant policies under the Trump administration, including an increase in the rejection of asylum applications; stepped-up raids on immigrant communities; increased deportations; separation of immigrant families who entered the country illegally; and ending a special temporary-protection status of thousands of people from war-torn countries or those suffering natural disasters, such as Haiti, Yemen and El Salvador.
From the early weeks of his government, Trump has made clear that his overall goal is to reduce legal and illegal immigration. His policies could eventually change the ethnic makeup of the United States.
Trump has said immigration should be based on "merit" and favor those who can easily "assimilate," or as he once put it, come "from places like Norway."
Trump reiterated that sentiment on Tuesday during the visit of Polish President Andrzej Duda when asked by reporters about visa waivers for Poles.
"We love the people of Poland coming to the United States in any way, shape or form," Trump said. In contrast, he has criticized immigration from poorer nations in Africa and Central America, calling them "shitholes."
In the last year, refugees admitted to the United States are overwhelmingly Christian, about 70%, to about 14% Muslim, according to State Department figures, even though about 40% of the more than 60 million displaced people worldwide are Muslim.
Early in his administration, Trump sought to declare a ban on people arriving in the U.S. from several mostly Muslim countries. The ban, after numerous court stays, only survived after adjustments to assure courts that Muslims were not being targeted.
The new cap would apply in the next fiscal year starting Oct. 1. Only about 21,000 refugees have been permitted in during the fiscal year now ending, fewer than half of those allowed under the current ceiling of 45,000, according to State Department data.
Even in Europe, which has received the brunt of refugee flows from the Middle East that ultimately created significant political backlash, numerous countries have majorities that approve of receiving refugees, according to a report released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center.
Spain, Germany, Sweden, Britain and other countries that have seen immigration spur a right-wing nationalist surge nevertheless have three-quarters or more of their populations favoring refugee arrivals, the Pew study, conducted this summer, said.
--
tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com
Twitter: @TracyKWilkinson

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2018


CORRECTION:  Refugee quota: In the Sept. 20 Section A, an article about the Trump administration's plan to slash the number of refugees accepted in the U.S. said the proposed quota is a third of last year's number. It is down a third, from 45,000 to 30,000 refugees. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CENTRAL AMERICANS seeking asylum in the U.S. gather at an encampment near El Chaparral Port of Entry in Tijuana in May.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary Coronado Los Angeles Times 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
All Rights Reserved

29 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Los Angeles Times

September 20, 2018 Thursday  
Home Edition

New refugee quota called 'shameful'; 
State Department officials defend the decision to drastically limit the number.

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON  

Facing backlash over the decision to drastically limit the number of refugees who will be permitted to settle in the United States, State Department officials are attempting to defend the move and soften its impact.
But ultimately, the proposed new quota -- a third of last year's number and an all-time low -- will probably remain the same or even smaller because it fits into President Trump's broader policy, which critics say is aimed at reducing the number of foreign-born people in the United States.
Amid what the United Nations calls the worst refugee crisis since World War II, millions of people have fled war, famine or political repression in the Middle East, Africa and more recently, Central and South America. 
Despite some polls that show general public support for refugees, Trump has been accused of trying to build political capital among his base by stoking fear of immigrants and apathy toward refugees.
Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo announced late Monday the administration's plan to slash the number of refugees accepted in the United States by a third, down to 30,000 from this year's cap of 45,000 and the lowest since the Refugee Act was adopted nearly 40 years ago. It is the second consecutive year the ceiling has been lowered.
Pompeo said the lower goal was made necessary by the backlog of asylum seekers in the United States, numbering 800,000.
The cap reflects "our commitment to protect the most vulnerable around the world while prioritizing the safety and well-being of the American people, as President Trump has directed," Pompeo said.
Barely 24 hours later, the decision was met with a scathing blast of criticism from members of Congress and immigrant-advocacy and human rights groups.
Refugee advocates described the proposed limit as appalling and an affront to front-line countries like Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey that have received millions of refugees.
"The abysmally low refugee cap ... is a shameful abdication of our humanity in the face of the worst refugee crisis in history," said Jennifer Quigley of the Human Rights First advocacy organization. "By setting the lowest refugee cap in history, we have turned our backs not only on those in dire circumstances abroad, but on our own American ideals."
Ryan Mace, refugee specialist at the U.S. branch of Amnesty International, said the new ceiling, compounded by "roadblock after roadblock" for refugees, was an "all-out attack" on refugee resettlement.
Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) was one of several lawmakers, mostly Democratic, who condemned Pompeo's proposal as a cruel move that will only weaken the United States. He said it was part of Trump's determination "to build metaphorical walls" around the country.
The State Department attempted to clarify that the new ceiling was merely a recommendation that would be reviewed by Congress before the White House would sign off.
The Trump administration wants to prevent immigration and floods of refugees by helping improve conditions in the home countries, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Tuesday. At the same time, however, the administration is reducing much of the aid that would fulfill that goal, such as reconstruction money for Syria and Iraq and democracy-building assistance in Central America.
"America is the most generous nation in the entire world," Nauert said. But, she added, "Our pockets are not unlimited."
Limiting refugees is just the latest in a string of anti-immigrant policies under the Trump administration, including an increase in the rejection of asylum applications; stepped-up raids on immigrant communities; increased deportations; separation of immigrant families who entered the country illegally; and ending a special temporary-protection status of thousands of people from war-torn countries or those suffering natural disasters, such as Haiti, Yemen and El Salvador.
From the early weeks of his government, Trump has made clear that his overall goal is to reduce legal and illegal immigration. His policies could eventually change the ethnic makeup of the United States.
Trump has said immigration should be based on "merit" and favor those who can easily "assimilate," or as he once put it, come "from places like Norway."
Trump reiterated that sentiment on Tuesday during the visit of Polish President Andrzej Duda when asked by reporters about visa waivers for Poles.
"We love the people of Poland coming to the United States in any way, shape or form," Trump said. In contrast, he has criticized immigration from poorer nations in Africa and Central America, calling them "shitholes."
In the last year, refugees admitted to the United States are overwhelmingly Christian, about 70%, to about 14% Muslim, according to State Department figures, even though about 40% of the more than 60 million displaced people worldwide are Muslim.
Early in his administration, Trump sought to declare a ban on people arriving in the U.S. from several mostly Muslim countries. The ban, after numerous court stays, only survived after adjustments to assure courts that Muslims were not being targeted.
The new cap would apply in the next fiscal year starting Oct. 1. Only about 21,000 refugees have been permitted in during the fiscal year now ending, fewer than half of those allowed under the current ceiling of 45,000, according to State Department data.
Even in Europe, which has received the brunt of refugee flows from the Middle East that ultimately created significant political backlash, numerous countries have majorities that approve of receiving refugees, according to a report released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center.
Spain, Germany, Sweden, Britain and other countries that have seen immigration spur a right-wing nationalist surge nevertheless have three-quarters or more of their populations favoring refugee arrivals, the Pew study, conducted this summer, said.
--
tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com
Twitter: @TracyKWilkinson

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CENTRAL AMERICANS seeking asylum in the U.S. gather at an encampment near El Chaparral Port of Entry in Tijuana in May.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary Coronado Los Angeles Times 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
All Rights Reserved

30 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 25, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SAN FRANCISCO BACKS PLAN TO SAFEGUARD REFUGEES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 23

The Board of Supervisors has voted 8 to 3 Monday to adopt a resolution declaring the city a sanctuary for refugees from Central American countries.
The board also voted Monday, 11 to 0, to approve an ordinance that would prevent the city from investing in or entering into contracts with businesses with links to South Africa.
Neither measure can take effect before a second reading in two weeks, after which Mayor Dianne Feinstein will decide whether to sign them. 
The sanctuary resolution tells city employees, including police officers, that they need not report law-abiding Salvadorans or Guatemalans or cooperate with the immigration authorities in arresting such people. An estimated 80,000 people from Guatemala and El Salvador live in San Francisco.
Similar resolutions have been passed recently in Los Angeles, West Hollywood, Berkeley, Chicago, St. Paul and Cambridge, Mass., despite opposition from the Reagan Administration.
''We are not asking anyone to do anything illegal,'' said Supervisor Nancy Walker. ''We have got to extend our hand to these people. If these people go home, they die. They are asking us to let them stay.''
Supervisor Willie Kennedy, a co-sponsor of both ordinances, denied that the board was ''meddling in foreign affairs.''
''I think we're dealing with human rights issues, not foreign affairs,'' she said.
The sanctuary resolution says the police, like other officials, are not required to help the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service find law-abiding refugees.
Under Federal law, citizens are not required to report illegal aliens, except for peace officers who observe the aliens entering the country, she said.
The ordinance is aimed at protecting refugees already in the United States from being returned to their homelands, Supervisor Kennedy said.
Harold Ezell, director of the Western regional office of the immigration service, last week called the proposal ''irresponsible activity'' and said elected officials who support such actions were going ''against their oath to uphold the law.'' He said granting sanctuary to the refugees would eventually cost taxpayers thousands of dollars in welfare benefits. He has also said that people from such Central American countries enter the United States for economic reasons, rather than to escape persecution.
The ordinance on South Africa investments, meant to protest that country's policies that segregate and deny rights to nonwhites, would exempt contracts worth less than $5,000 and existing contracts with companies that have dealings in South Africa.
The companies that already have contracts with the city would be required to divest themselves of their South Africa investments before their contracts could be renewed.
Other exceptions would be contracts for goods produced only in South Africa or in cases where the City Treasurer had determined that San Francisco would suffer financially by avoiding a business with South Africa connections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

31 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

May 30, 2016 Monday

Treat refugees as real people, not policies

LENGTH: 808  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington, D.C.: American Federation of Teachers has issued the following news release:                                                 

  

 The panel started at the heart of the matter, with images of the refugees themselves: washing ashore, hidden under car bumpers, fleeing in impossibly crowded boats and trains, suffering the indignities of encampments and forced exodus from their homes. Refugees from the Holocaust were juxtaposed with refugees from recent conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Sudan, Central America. Most heartbreaking were the labels accompanying the photographs: Terrorists. Illegals. Rapists. Aliens. 


 

 The four-minute film (link is external) set the tone for the serious May 18 policy discussion (link is external) about the international refugee crisis, co-sponsored by the Albert Shanker Institute and the Jewish Labor Committee.
 When particular ethnic, religious and racial groups are singled out to be ostracized and punished for their identity, those of us who are not of that identity have a moral obligation to be in the forefront of their defense," said Herb Magidson, a former AFT vice president and former president of the Jewish Labor Committee, especially in the climate of intolerance that has intensified over the course of current electoral rhetoric.

 

 Shelly Pitterman, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' regional representative for the United States and the Caribbean, quantified the point, noting that there were 20 million refugees at this time last year, and 40 million internally displaced people. "Reactive, protectionist policies are either failing to reduce the number of refugees, undermining human rights, or both."

 

 It is far better--"essential," he said--that public policy be guided by human rights. Best practices regarding remote education, energy use, logistics and accountability should be widespread. Funding must be set in place; resettlement responsibilities must be shared, with no single country providing the entire solution.

 

 Although the magnitude of the refugee population is new, the concept reaches back to the 1800s, when HIAS, originally the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, was founded in response to the genocide of Russian Jews. In the fear surrounding refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, Mark Hetfield, HIAS president and CEO, hears echoes of a time when Jews were seen as a "security threat" when, in fact, they were victims in need of assistance. Hetfield was particularly critical of the United States' cap on Syrian refugee resettlement at 10,000 people: "It's not even a symbolic gesture," he said, especially when Canada has accepted some 26,000 refugees over just a few months.

 

 Focusing on Central American refugees, Jennifer Podkul, director of policy for Kids in Need of Defense, shared some numbers: 68,000 children were apprehended at the Mexican border in 2014, and she expects as many or more this year. They are fleeing "unbearable" lives in Central America, where they are frequently surrounded by violent gangs that tell young people to "join or die" and force young girls to run drugs or worse. Violence keeps children from attending school and suppresses business; subsequent economic hardship creates desperation and violence; a vicious circle endures. Meanwhile, "immigrants" who cross the border are locked into detention centers or, if they are lucky enough to connect with family, live in fear of late-night raids by immigration officers ready to deport them or their parents.

 

 "We need to treat this as a human refugee crisis," not an immigration issue, said Podkul. When the child soldiers of Sudan escaped, they were treated as victims of war and called "lost boys," she said. "We've been treating [Central American] children as illegal aliens. I think the United States can do better than that."

 

 AFT President Randi Weingarten, who moderated the panel, asked what AFT members can do to help. "The teachers are already doing so much," said Hetfield. "Making sure their classrooms are safe places for refugee kids is the most important thing they can do."

 

 Panelists agreed that "humanizing" the issue is key to gaining support for further refugee aid. Starting with education, said Weingarten, "you have to get into people's souls and hearts."

 

 "Make it about children in our community, not about immigration," said Podkul.

 

 "These so-called hoards, rapists, murderers," said Hetfield, "they're really just people who want to have a normal life."

 

 Panelists also agreed that the heated anti-immigrant rhetoric prevalent in the presidential campaign of the presumptive Republican nominee is beyond troubling, and they will work to steer the narrative away from fear and demagoguery, toward empathy and hope.

 

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

32 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

May 28, 2016 Saturday

Treat refugees as real people, not policies

LENGTH: 808  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington, D.C.: American Federation of Teachers has issued the following news release:                                                 

  

 The panel started at the heart of the matter, with images of the refugees themselves: washing ashore, hidden under car bumpers, fleeing in impossibly crowded boats and trains, suffering the indignities of encampments and forced exodus from their homes. Refugees from the Holocaust were juxtaposed with refugees from recent conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Sudan, Central America. Most heartbreaking were the labels accompanying the photographs: Terrorists. Illegals. Rapists. Aliens. 


 

 The four-minute film (link is external) set the tone for the serious May 18 policy discussion (link is external) about the international refugee crisis, co-sponsored by the Albert Shanker Institute and the Jewish Labor Committee.
 When particular ethnic, religious and racial groups are singled out to be ostracized and punished for their identity, those of us who are not of that identity have a moral obligation to be in the forefront of their defense," said Herb Magidson, a former AFT vice president and former president of the Jewish Labor Committee, especially in the climate of intolerance that has intensified over the course of current electoral rhetoric.

 

 Shelly Pitterman, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' regional representative for the United States and the Caribbean, quantified the point, noting that there were 20 million refugees at this time last year, and 40 million internally displaced people. "Reactive, protectionist policies are either failing to reduce the number of refugees, undermining human rights, or both."

 

 It is far better--"essential," he said--that public policy be guided by human rights. Best practices regarding remote education, energy use, logistics and accountability should be widespread. Funding must be set in place; resettlement responsibilities must be shared, with no single country providing the entire solution.

 

 Although the magnitude of the refugee population is new, the concept reaches back to the 1800s, when HIAS, originally the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, was founded in response to the genocide of Russian Jews. In the fear surrounding refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, Mark Hetfield, HIAS president and CEO, hears echoes of a time when Jews were seen as a "security threat" when, in fact, they were victims in need of assistance. Hetfield was particularly critical of the United States' cap on Syrian refugee resettlement at 10,000 people: "It's not even a symbolic gesture," he said, especially when Canada has accepted some 26,000 refugees over just a few months.

 

 Focusing on Central American refugees, Jennifer Podkul, director of policy for Kids in Need of Defense, shared some numbers: 68,000 children were apprehended at the Mexican border in 2014, and she expects as many or more this year. They are fleeing "unbearable" lives in Central America, where they are frequently surrounded by violent gangs that tell young people to "join or die" and force young girls to run drugs or worse. Violence keeps children from attending school and suppresses business; subsequent economic hardship creates desperation and violence; a vicious circle endures. Meanwhile, "immigrants" who cross the border are locked into detention centers or, if they are lucky enough to connect with family, live in fear of late-night raids by immigration officers ready to deport them or their parents.

 

 "We need to treat this as a human refugee crisis," not an immigration issue, said Podkul. When the child soldiers of Sudan escaped, they were treated as victims of war and called "lost boys," she said. "We've been treating [Central American] children as illegal aliens. I think the United States can do better than that."

 

 AFT President Randi Weingarten, who moderated the panel, asked what AFT members can do to help. "The teachers are already doing so much," said Hetfield. "Making sure their classrooms are safe places for refugee kids is the most important thing they can do."

 

 Panelists agreed that "humanizing" the issue is key to gaining support for further refugee aid. Starting with education, said Weingarten, "you have to get into people's souls and hearts."

 

 "Make it about children in our community, not about immigration," said Podkul.

 

 "These so-called hoards, rapists, murderers," said Hetfield, "they're really just people who want to have a normal life."

 

 Panelists also agreed that the heated anti-immigrant rhetoric prevalent in the presidential campaign of the presumptive Republican nominee is beyond troubling, and they will work to steer the narrative away from fear and demagoguery, toward empathy and hope.

 

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

34 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 11, 2016 Thursday

Ohio: City Club Fridays @ the Library

LENGTH: 301  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Columbus: Cuyahoga County has issued the following event detail:

  

  City Club Fridays @ the Library

 

 Friday, February 12, 2016, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM

 

 Location: Parma-Snow -

 

 Audiences: Adults

 

 Event Type: General

 

 Watch our live stream of the City Club of Cleveland Friday Forums on the big screen in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. You do not have to be a City Club member to participate and submit your questions LIVE to the forum via Twitter. 


 

 FRIDAY FORUM: MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES...AND WHAT AMERICANS CAN DO TO HELP

 

 According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), nearly 60 million people were considered refugees in 2014 - the highest level since 1945. More than half are children. Ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa, Myanmar, and Central America are responsible for the drastic increase in displaced people.

 

 The United States (U.S.) is one of the world's top resettlement countries for refugees. In 2015, The Migration Policy Institute reported resettling nearly 70,000 refugees. But could - or should - we be doing more?

 

 Join us for a conversation with Anne C. Richard, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, on the worldwide refugee crisis and how Americans can help.

 

 This event will be held in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. Speakers will begin at 12:30 p.m.

 

 The City Club of Cleveland Friday Forum Series is a vibrant, dynamic and diverse forum for citizens and thought leaders to discuss issues and ideas that shape our region, nation, and the world.

 

 City Club Fridays @ the Library are free and open to the public. Registration is not required.

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

35 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 9, 2016 Tuesday

Ohio: City Club Fridays @ the Library

LENGTH: 301  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Columbus: Cuyahoga County has issued the following event detail:

  

 City Club Fridays @ the Library

 

 Friday, February 12, 2016, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM

 

 Location: Parma-Snow -

 

 Audiences: Adults

 

 Event Type: General

 

 Watch our live stream of the City Club of Cleveland Friday Forums on the big screen in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. You do not have to be a City Club member to participate and submit your questions LIVE to the forum via Twitter. 


 

 FRIDAY FORUM: MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES...AND WHAT AMERICANS CAN DO TO HELP

 

 According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), nearly 60 million people were considered refugees in 2014 - the highest level since 1945. More than half are children. Ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa, Myanmar, and Central America are responsible for the drastic increase in displaced people.

 

 The United States (U.S.) is one of the world's top resettlement countries for refugees. In 2015, The Migration Policy Institute reported resettling nearly 70,000 refugees. But could - or should - we be doing more?

 

 Join us for a conversation with Anne C. Richard, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, on the worldwide refugee crisis and how Americans can help.

 

 This event will be held in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. Speakers will begin at 12:30 p.m.

 

 The City Club of Cleveland Friday Forum Series is a vibrant, dynamic and diverse forum for citizens and thought leaders to discuss issues and ideas that shape our region, nation, and the world.

 

 City Club Fridays @ the Library are free and open to the public. Registration is not required.

  

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

36 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 9, 2016 Tuesday

Ohio: City Club Fridays @ the Library

LENGTH: 301  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Columbus: Cuyahoga County has issued the following event detail:

  

 City Club Fridays @ the Library

 

 Friday, February 12, 2016, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM

 

 Location: Parma-Snow -

 

 Audiences: Adults

 

 Event Type: General

 

 Watch our live stream of the City Club of Cleveland Friday Forums on the big screen in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. You do not have to be a City Club member to participate and submit your questions LIVE to the forum via Twitter. 


 

 FRIDAY FORUM: MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES...AND WHAT AMERICANS CAN DO TO HELP

 

 According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), nearly 60 million people were considered refugees in 2014 - the highest level since 1945. More than half are children. Ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa, Myanmar, and Central America are responsible for the drastic increase in displaced people.

 

 The United States (U.S.) is one of the world's top resettlement countries for refugees. In 2015, The Migration Policy Institute reported resettling nearly 70,000 refugees. But could - or should - we be doing more?

 

 Join us for a conversation with Anne C. Richard, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, on the worldwide refugee crisis and how Americans can help.

 

 This event will be held in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. Speakers will begin at 12:30 p.m.

 

 The City Club of Cleveland Friday Forum Series is a vibrant, dynamic and diverse forum for citizens and thought leaders to discuss issues and ideas that shape our region, nation, and the world.

 

 City Club Fridays @ the Library are free and open to the public. Registration is not required.

  

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

37 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 27, 2014 Saturday  
The New York Times on the Web

Refugee Flow to Industrialized Nations Is Poised for a 20-Year High

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 489 words

GENEVA -- Conflict and instability in the Middle East and parts of Africa look set to push the number of people seeking asylum in industrialized countries to the highest level in 20 years in 2014, the United Nations refugee agency said Friday, warning that the flow of refugees was increasing the strain on already overstretched humanitarian aid budgets. 
More than 330,700 people applied for asylum in a group of 44 countries in Europe, North America and parts of the Asia-Pacific region in the first half of the year, the refugee agency reported, almost a quarter more than in the last half of 2013.
From the experience of past years, which saw more people seeking asylum in the second half of the year, it predicts that the number of people seeking refuge in these countries will reach more than 700,000 by the end of the year, the highest level since the Balkan wars of the 1990s.
The fast-rising number of asylum seekers adds to the alarm expressed by international aid agencies struggling to cope with numbers of people displaced by conflict that have reached the highest level since the end of World War II and soaring numbers of migrants risking their lives to reach the richer countries of Europe and North America.
''The international community needs to prepare their populations for the reality that in the absence of solutions to conflict, more and more people are going to need refuge and care in the coming months and years,'' Antnio Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, warned in a statement. He added: ''Unfortunately, it is not clear that the resources and the access to asylum will be available to help them.''
The biggest group of asylum seekers in recent years came from Afghanistan, refugee agency spokesman Adrian Edwards said, but in 2014 the largest number are Syrians fleeing more than three years of civil war.
Some 48,400 Syrians sought asylum in the first half of the year, a tiny number compared with the more than three million Syrian refugees sheltering in neighboring countries but still more than double the number applying in the same period of last year.
The other main sources of asylum seekers were Iraq, Afghanistan and Eritrea, together producing close to 60,000 applicants, the refugee agency reported.
More than two-thirds of asylum seekers in the first half of the year sought entry to six countries, including four Western European countries, Turkey and the United States.
Some 52,800 asylum seekers applied to get into the United States, more than one-third of them from Mexico and Central America escaping drug cartel and organized crime violence, although China, as in previous years, was the main country of origin.
Germany, Sweden and France were among the most sought-after destinations, particularly by Syrians, while Italy, the destination of thousands of migrants smuggled across the Mediterranean from North Africa, saw rising asylum claims from West African countries.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/27/world/europe/refugee-flow-to-industrialized-nations-is-poised-for-a-20-year-high.html

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

39 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 25, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

West Agrees on Relief Role for Africa Force

BYLINE: Reuters 

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany, Nov. 24

Western military leaders today agreed that any international force for Central Africa would be limited to helping deliver relief and helping refugees go home but they did not specify the number of troops or whether a force would even be dispatched.
The military leaders also did not say where the troops would be based or what their rules of engagement would be. The contingency plans from the three-day meeting, held at United States European Command in Germany, now go to political leaders for consideration. 
 "The objectives of such a force would be strictly humanitarian," said Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada, who has been named to head the force. "The force would be politically and militarily neutral."
 "The mission of a multinational force, as we have defined it, would be to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance and voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons," he said. The general told a news briefing that Western and African military leaders came to a consensus that at least 250,000 refugees were still roaming eastern Zaire.
 The number was close to an earlier United States estimate of 202,000 but far below the 700,000 refugees that aid groups and the United Nations say remain there.      

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

41 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 29, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ottawa Talks Set for Aiding Zaire Refugees

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 28

Diplomats and senior officials from at least 15 nations committed to supporting a Canadian proposal to provide aid to refugees in Central Africa will meet in Ottawa on Friday to discuss the framework for a scaled-down mission to aid refugees.
Canada's Foreign Minister, Lloyd Axworthy, insisted today that a multinational effort was still necessary. Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, the Canadian officer leading the United Nations mission, will still be in charge of carrying out the mission. 
 Mr. Axworthy said that 15 nations, including the United States, South Africa, Senegal, Malawi, France, Belgium, Denmark and Japan, and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of the Red Cross had agreed to take part.
The latest proposal put forward by Canada calls for the establishment of a headquarters operation in Uganda, stepped-up air reconnaissance in eastern Zaire to get better information on the number of refugees still there, and finally airdrops of food, water and medicine, but only if relief organizations believe that will be helpful.
Following an address to the National Press Club in Ottawa this morning, Mr. Axworthy told reporters that the Rwandan Government had agreed to allow relief agencies to cross into eastern Zaire for 10 days to help determine the number of remaining refugees and their needs.
Canadian officials say they believe there could be as many as 200,000 refugees still in Zaire, although they admit that the number could be far fewer. Their hope is that at the very least, an international relief mission would be able to get a better idea of conditions on the ground in Zaire. That information would then be used to determine whether an airlift of supplies was necessary.
Rwandan officials have called the Canadian's estimates of refugees vastly overstated and have expressed some opposition to the Canadian proposal to use a Ugandan airport in Entebbe as an airdrop headquarters.
Prime Minister Jean Chretien, traveling in Asia, said today that international efforts must continue until the situation in central Africa is fully resolved.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

42 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 15, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE US ACCEPTS TOO MANY REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lamm; Richard D. Lamm, Governor of Colorado, is co-author, with Gary Imhoff, of ''The Immigration Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.''

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: DENVER

America's golden door has always been open to refugees. The widespread interest in the ultimately unsuccessful effort of the Ukrainian seaman Miroslav Medved to defect to the United States shows how eager Americans are to offer sanctuary.
But have we thought through the implications of this policy in a crowded, unstable world? One refugee is a symbol; a million refugees (we have taken in 800,000 from Southeast Asia alone in the last decade) constitute a major demographic event.
In a world already awash with refugees, some potential hot spots demand attention. The Government of the Philippines could be violently overthrown. Possibilities for a peaceful solution in South Africa seem small. The residents of Hong Kong face major changes as it reverts to Chinese rule. In the name of human rights, we demand that two million to three million Soviet Jews be allowed to emigrate. Already 10 percent of El Salvador lives in the United States. 
When revolution sounds a government's death knell, the bell also tolls for us. In keeping with our tradition as a haven for the oppressed, we have Richard D. Lamm, Governor of Colorado, is co-author, with Gary Imhoff, of ''The Immigration Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.'' taken in more refugees for resettle-ment than all other nations com- bined, while also absorbing an influx of new immigrants in the past two decades under our normal procedures.
This year, we will accept 76,000 new refugees, 270,000 immigrants under established national quotas and 190,000 immediate relatives of American citizens. At times of crisis - the exodus from Mariel, Cuba, and the fall of Indochinese governments -we have admitted many more. With no new calamity yet upon us, now is a good time to reassess the choices we want to make on our immigration policy.
Under our system of accepting refugees, applicants must establish that they are currently being persecuted or would be subject to persecution if they returned to their homelands. They then are processed under six priorities: those in immediate danger of losing their lives, or have no alternative to resettlement here, or for whom there is a compelling national concern; former employees of the United States Government; family reunification (even reunification with grandparents can establish an anchor); other specified ties to the United States; family reunification with still-more-distant relatives; and other admissions in the national interest.
Take the Philippines as an example. An overthrow of the Government by Marxist revolutionaries could result in pressure for us to admit a large number of new refugees. Former Marcos associates would flee. The embassy in Manila is our largest in the world and Filipino employees working there outnumber Americans 3 to 1. Many of the 56 million Filipinos could claim family reunification and ''other ties.'' After Mariel, can we discount ''boat lifts'' from the Philippines's harbors?
Isn't it time that we ask ourselves whether the United States is running its refugee policy or it is running us? We must decide how many people we can absorb into our economy and assimilate into our culture. Congress should set a cap on the number of new immigrants we will accept in future years from all categories - immediate relatives, quota immigrants and refugees. I suggest that we hold the line at the 527,000 we are accepting this year. Increases in refugee admissions will need to be offset by fewer immigrants under our normal procedures.
However, in order to avoid crowding out too many of the immigrants who now come to us under established national quotas, we should simultaneously narrow the refugee criteria to include only persons who clearly face imprisonment or execution if required to return home, and their spouses and minor children. It's tragic that people have to live under totalitarian regimes, but we simply do not have the capacity to accept new large infusions of refugees for resettlement on top of our regular immigrant quota.
While it is impossible to predict where or when, the future is soon going to present us with painful choices that will challenge our historic traditions. Yet for our children's sake, we must ask, ''How much compassion can we afford?'' At some point, our compassion to share what we have will destroy what we have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

43 of 996 DOCUMENTS


US Official News

November 17, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Senator Lankford Statement on Governor Fallin's Call To Suspend Syrian Refugee Program

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: Lahore


 Washington: Office of the Senator James Lankford has issued the following news release:

  

 Senator James Lankford (R-OK) today released the following statement on Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin's call to suspend the acceptance of Syrian refugees into the United States in the wake of the deadly terror attacks in Paris. 


 

 "Millions of peaceful Syrian families have been forced to flee for their lives from religious and ethnic brutality. The small contingent of ISIL fighters rule over many villages in Syria and Iraq with ruthless vengeance. America has historically accepted thousands of refugees each year, but the refugees fleeing from Syria cannot be vetted the same as refugees fleeing from Central Africa or Central America; the unique risk is much higher. Until Congress and the American people can understand the detail of the background checks, the final selection process, and the strength of the security procedures, it is reasonable to suspend the movement of Syrian refugees to the United States. Currently, it takes over 18 months to vet a single refugee coming to the United States. To delay and evaluate the process does not significantly affect the program, but it does provide an additional layer of security for American families."

 

 The brutal violence from ISIL has contributed to a major Syrian refugee crisis in the region. For several decades, America has helped refugees who are escaping tyranny, including persecuted Christians. On October 21, Senator Lankford called on the Obama Administration to ensure a stringent vetting process to verify the backgrounds of refugees. CLICK HERE to read that letter to Secretary of State John Kerry.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

46 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 10, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

World's Welcome Strained By 20 Million Refugees;
Xenophobia Surging, U.N. Commissioner Says

James Rupert, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A32

LENGTH: 490 words

An exploding global population of refugees is overwhelming the human tradition of giving asylum, a United Nations agency said yesterday.
One out of every 125 people in the world has been forced out of his or her normal life and home by civil war, persecution or violence, according to the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, Sadako Ogata, whose agency, UNHCR, released its first global study of refugees. Ogata said 19.7 million refugees live outside their home countries, more than eight times the number two decades ago, and another 24 million are displaced within their own borders. 
"At the start of the 1990s," with the passing of the Cold War, "optimists foresaw a reduction" in numbers of refugees, the report said. But the effective collapse of several states -- notably the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Somalia and Liberia -- has pushed millions of people into misery and overwhelmed the world's ability to respond, the report said.
With impoverished Eastern Europeans spilling into Western Europe -- and Haitian boat people and Chinese and Latin American migrants entering the United States -- the post-Cold War 1990s have been marked by "an alarming upsurge of hostile and xenophobic attitudes," Ogata said in releasing the report to journalists in Washington.
The report noted steps taken by countries around the world to close their doors to refugees. Public weariness with seemingly intractable conflicts, economic recession "and the rolling up of the West's ideological welcome mat for refugees from communist countries" have helped bring "the less hospitable climate facing refugees," it said.
UNHCR directed its worldwide appeal first at the United States, publishing the study initially in English and having Ogata release it in news conferences in New York and Washington. The book-length report, which was funded by a private Japanese donor, is to be published soon in other languages.
The report underscored the tussle between the Clinton administration and the United Nations over how to respond to the implosion or near-collapse of states such as Bosnia, Somalia and Haiti. The United Nations has been seeking a more active U.S. role in peace keeping and more aggressive, armed "peace enforcement" where nations have dissolved in civil war. But the administration, under domestic political pressure, has backed away from any such commitment -- even in Somalia, where it has troops in place.
Ogata praised the U.S. role in donating money and supplies to assure the basic survival of refugees, saying Washington's donations form 22 percent of her agency's budget. But the report stressed the need for international policy to quench civil wars. Helping refugees is "becoming more closely tied to peacemaking and peace-keeping efforts in their home countries," it said. "Virtually all the refugee-producing conflicts taking place in the world during . . . 1993 were within states rather than between them."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, THE WORLD'S REFUGEES (CHART IS NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

47 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 7, 2016 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

Nearly 50 Million Children Are Refugees, Report Finds

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 389 words

Nearly 50 million children worldwide have migrated across borders or been forcibly displaced by conflicts, the United Nations said on Tuesday in a new report meant to emphasize the trauma children face from war, climate change and poverty. 
Distributed by Unicef, the United Nations Children's agency, the report said more than half of these children, roughly 28 million, have fled violence and insecurity. 
  Children also represent a disproportionate and growing segment of those who have sought refuge outside their country of birth, the report said. While children make up about a third of the global population, they account for about half of all refugees.
  An executive summary of the report, titled ''Uprooted,'' described it as the first comprehensive presentation of global data about the affected children: ''where they are born, where they move and some of the dangers they face along the way.''
  The report said that last year, two countries -- Syria and Afghanistan -- accounted for nearly half of all child refugees as classified by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It also showed that the number of child refugees has more than doubled in the past 10 years.
  Unicef issued the report a few weeks before the annual United Nations General Assembly, when world leaders will converge to meet against a backdrop of the protracted conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan, South Sudan and other parts of the Middle East and Africa that together are helping to drive the global refugee and migrant crises.
  ''Children do not bear any responsibility for the bombs and bullets, the gang violence, persecution, the shriveled crops and low family wages driving them from their homes,'' the report said.
  Turkey is host to the largest total number of recent refugees, with more than three million people fleeing the civil war in Syria. It quite likely has the largest number of child refugees, too, the report said. But Lebanon, relative to its population, is host to more refugees than any other country: Roughly one in five people in Lebanon is a refugee.
  The report also showed that among migrant children, three out of every five live in Asia or Africa. In the Americas, home to roughly 6.3 million child migrants, four out of five live in just three countries: the United States, Mexico and Canada.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/07/world/americas/unicef-children-refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

48 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

September 29, 2014 Monday

Lowell still a top site for refugees

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 436 words

LOWELL -- Refugees still come into Lowell to start their new lives in America, just as they always have, most notably Cambodians fleeing the Khmer Rouge. Refugees and immigrants have given the city one of the most diverse populations in Massachusetts. 
The International Institute of New England's Lowell office, the only refugee resettlement agency in Middlesex County, has seen nearly 300 arrivals in the past 11 months. As a city, Lowell trails only Worcester and West Springfield among Massachusetts cities expecting the most refugees in the coming fiscal year.
"Lowell, for a number of reasons, is still good for resettlement," Derek Mitchell, director of the International Institute's Lowell branch, said Friday at a meeting of refugee service providers at the Lowell Community Health Center.
Once here, refugees are given a tour of the necessities of life in America: a trip to the post office, the library, a Laundromat, a bank. They almost always do well once acclimated, and better than other immigrants elsewhere, Mitchell said.
"Everybody needs a place to land," he said. "And once they land, they tend to do quite well."
Of the 50 refugees expected to arrive in Lowell before the end of the year, 20 are projected to come from the Democratic Republic of Congo, which has suffered widespread conflict and displacement in recent years. Another 16 may come from Iraq, and 14 from Somalia, according to data from the state Office for Regufees and Immigrants.
About two-thirds of those are under age 18.
Statewide, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq and Somalia lead the list of native countries for refugees, with Iraqis the dominant group. It may take years for refugees from countries shaken by civil battles, such as Syria and Ukraine, to come to the United States, Mitchell said.
The United States has an annual cap of 70,000 refugees, not nearly enough to house refugees from across the world, he said. Last year alone, Syria's civil war created an estimated 2.5 million refugees, according to reports.
Those coming to the United States receive extensive and multiple rounds of health screenings, according to Jennifer Cochran, director of the Refugee and Immigrant Health Program at the state Department of Public Health.
Addressing concerns about Ebola, which is expected to spread much farther before being brought under control, Cochran said no refugees are currently being processed out of west Africa.
Worries about other contagious diseases far outweigh Ebola anyway, Cochran said.
"People are way more worried about chickenpox at this point," she said.
Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mitchell Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our SmugMug site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

49 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

January 31, 2017 Tuesday  
Suburban Edition

Delay could be deadly for ailing African children Refugee ban may be deadly for sick African children

BYLINE: Kevin Sieff

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: DADAAB REFUGEE CAMP, KENYA

For tiny cancer patient and others, order puts treatment out of reach
DADAAB REFUGEE CAMP, Kenya - They were deemed the most vulnerable cases: refugees suffering from medical conditions so severe that normally their journeys to the United States would be expedited.
One is a 9-year-old Somali child in Ethiopia with a congenital heart disease that cannot be treated in a refugee camp. Another is a 1-year-old Sudanese boy with cancer. A third is a Somali boy with a severe intestinal disorder living in a camp that doesn't even have the colostomy bags he needs. 
After President Trump's executive order last week, their resettlement in America was put on hold. Now, the organization responsible for processing refugees in sub-Saharan Africa, Church World Service, says that order could be their death sentence. 
The organization compiled an internal list of some of its most desperate cases, and it is urging the U.S. government to lift the suspension.  "When you're talking about a 9-year-old with congenital heart problems, a [delay of a] day is too long," said Sarah Krause, the senior director of Church World Service's immigration and refugee program. "It is unnecessary for these individuals to die while waiting for resettlement."
The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said Monday that 20,000 people in precarious conditions would be banned from traveling to the United States under the 120-day suspension on refugee admissions that was announced Friday. 
The Trump administration said it stopped accepting refugees temporarily to study ways to ensure that the new arrivals don't pose a threat to the United States.
But the U.N. agency noted that the refugees it referred to the U.S. government for resettlement are highly vulnerable - including people in need of urgent medical assistance  or survivors of torture.
About 80,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa are at some stage of the U.S. refugee process, which can take years to complete. Of those, about 2,000 are deemed "most vulnerable," because of urgent medical problems or "extreme protection concerns" such as worries about their safety or well-being, according to Church World Service, which represents dozens of Protestant, Anglican and Orthodox religious communities and also works with refugee resettlement offices across the United States. 
Its list offers a glimpse into the human lives affected by the executive order.
In addition to people with medical conditions, the list includes refugees who have endured horrifying cases of physical and psychological trauma. One is a young Somali woman who was raped multiple times by assailants. She is now living in a safe house in a neighboring country with a child who was conceived in one of those assaults, Krause said. 
Many of the people on the  list were days or weeks away from traveling to the United States. Some had already been through a cultural orientation program, which teaches refugees what to expect in America - like how to use public transportation and how to apply for a job. They had passed numerous interviews and security screenings.
"These are already the most thoroughly vetted of any individuals entering the United States," Krause said.
One 38-year-old Somali woman that Church World Service added to its list is waiting at a small refugee transit center in Nairobi. Her name is Momina Hassan Aden. She had recently had a blood transfusion and was raising seven children alone, after her husband died last year. 
She remained fragile, said other refugees, who did not know the details of her medical condition. She had spent the last four years at the Kakuma Refugee Camp, a sprawling facility in northwestern Kenya that is home to more than 150,000 people. 
"There's not enough health care for me there," Aden said in a brief interview at the Nairobi transit center. She sat on the ground, surrounded by her children, who range in age from 1 to 12.   
"We're so worried about her," said Mohammed Abdi, another refugee at the center.
Refugees like Aden are in a new kind of purgatory. They have already given up their tents and humanitarian supplies, because they assumed they would be traveling to the United States. Now, the same buses that brought them from their refugee camps might end up taking them back.
They would be treated as new arrivals - often sent to crammed communal tents, waiting all over again to receive a card that entitles them to food rations. In Kakuma,  those rations were halved in December, as humanitarian organizations ran low on money as they struggled to respond to the global refugee crisis. 
Because many of the refugees' U.S. clearances will expire during the 120-day suspension, it could take them "months or even years to get to complete the process again," Krause said. 
Refugee organizations are frantically trying to find ways to save the lives of those who could suffer serious health problems or even die while waiting for the suspension to end. One possibility discussed was redirecting urgent cases from the United States to other countries.
The U.S. executive order allows the secretaries of state and homeland security to admit individuals as refugees on a case-by-case basis "in the national interest," but it is not yet clear whether that would help the individuals on the Church World Service list. A call to the State Department for comment was not immediately returned on Monday. 
Krause was distraught as she described her worries about the refugees. 
"I don't how else to take this but as a personal failure," she said, choking up.
kevin.sieff@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

53 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

October 29, 2015 Thursday  
Late Edition - Final

The Americas; Violence Creating Refugee Crisis, a Senior U.N. Official Warns

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 137 words

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said Wednesday that a refugee crisis was looming in Central and North America as people flee unchecked gang violence in parts of Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. ''The dramatic refugee crises we are witnessing in the world today are not confined to the Middle East or Africa,'' the high commissioner for Refugees, Antnio Guterres, said in Washington. ''We are seeing another refugee situation unfolding in the Americas.'' Mr. Guterres spoke as he issued a report describing the particular terror faced by women in those countries, which have some of the highest murder rates in the world. Applications for asylum in the United States have more than quadrupled since 2008, and they are also increasing in Central American countries like Costa Rica and Nicaragua.   

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/29/world/americas/violence-creating-refugee-crisis-a-un-commissioner-warns.html

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

56 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 30, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Aid for Refugees Approved; Airdrops Are Possible

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 29

Diplomats from 14 countries met in Ottawa today and gave formal approval for a relief mission that could airlift food to refugees in eastern Zaire if necessary. The mission is to be based in Entebbe, Uganda, and reconnaissance flights from there will search eastern Zaire for refugees.
Paul Heinbecker, Assistant Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for Canada, said that at least 100,000 refugees remain in Zaire, but that it is unclear where they are or whether they need emergency supplies. 
Canadian officials said troops for the mission, which is being directed by Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada, could be ready to supply relief goods by early next week. About 260 Canadian troops are already in central Africa, where they have been waiting for instructions.
"General Baril and his people are going to be on the spot, and they are going to make an assessment" on whether airdrops are needed, Mr. Heinbecker told reporters. The United States has agreed to support the mission, as have Britain, Cameroon, France, Italy, Japan, Senegal, Spain, South Africa and other nations.
In the last two weeks, the goal has diminished from urgent to uncertain. Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada initially called for 10,000 troops to open up safe passage for an estimated one million Rwandans trying to leave Zaire. Today's action seems to end the possibility of such a military operation.
Mr. Heinbecker acknowledged that airdrops may not be the best way to feed the refugees, but said that may be the only option left in inaccessible areas. Relief groups fear that food dropped by parachute could end up in the hands of guerrilla fighters, not the refugees. But African authorities have so far refused to allow relief groups to organize road convoys.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

58 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

June 4, 2003 Wednesday  
 Late Edition - Final 

U.S. Security Backlog Strands Many Refugees in Camps Abroad 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3  

More than 20,000 refugees approved for resettlement in the United States remain stranded in desolate camps in Africa, Asia and the Middle East as officials here continue to struggle to reduce the backlog of required security clearances, State Department officials say.
     The officials say they are working to speed up the process. About 14,300 refugees were admitted during the first eight months of the current fiscal year, up from nearly 3,000 during the corresponding months of the last fiscal year, which was disrupted by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  
 But the officials say refugee admissions are still far below normal. In recent years, about 42,000 refugees have been resettled during the first eight months of the fiscal year. The government had hoped to resettle 50,000 refugees by Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, but that seems unlikely.
In the last fiscal year, only about 27,000 of the 70,000 refugees expected to arrive in the United States actually made it -- the lowest number in 25 years. Advocacy groups and resettlement agencies say the government looks set to miss its target again this year.
"It's proving to be an immensely slow process and it is taking a tremendous toll in human terms," said Kathleen Newland, co-director of the Migration Policy Institute, an advocacy group that held a briefing on refugees here today.
"There are literally tens of thousands of people who have been accepted to the United States who are living in limbo in very harsh conditions," Ms. Newland said. "I think the State Department's stated determination to still move 50,000 refugees this year is an unrealistically optimistic one. I think we'll be lucky to see 30,000."
State Department officials, who oversee the refugee program, say they are working hard to move the refugees through the pipeline. So far, no terrorists have been found among the refugees screened and approved by the immigration officials, a senior State Department official said.
"Nobody's debating the fact that we're not where we want to be," the senior official said. "We're trying to do everything possible. We're already starting to see progress."
Officials in government and resettlement agencies blame the delays mostly on the backlogs in the new security checks, which require the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. to review the names of refugees fleeing countries considered breeding grounds for terrorists. The new security clearances were instituted after Sept. 11, 2001.
Refugee interviews have also been delayed by civil strife and fraud in resettlement claims in West Africa along with concerns that terrorists were operating in refugee camps in East Africa. Africa is one of America's largest sources of refugees.
In recent months, officials have flown to West Africa to try to identify new refugee populations. They have also provided financing for the United Nations refugee agency to create positions for 18 new resettlement officers to identify additional people fleeing persecution.
State Department officials say they are working with other government agencies to speed up security clearances. They note that several dozen Somali Bantu, members of the African tribe whose resettlement has been repeatedly delayed by security checks and concerns, have already arrived and more will be coming.
But advocates for refugees say the Bantu also demonstrate how painfully slow the process has become. A vast majority of Bantu are still in a squalid camp in Kenya where infant mortality rates have soared. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

59 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

October 1, 1998, Thursday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Boats work to clean up mysterious oil spill

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO; WASHINGTON; ATLANTA; MANASSAS, Va.

 
Dead and dying birds were found coated with oil in coastal waters Wednesday  as skimmer boats worked to contain a 2,300-gallon spill.
"I expect the number of dead birds to keep going up," said Dana Michaels,  spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and Game. "It's just this  nasty, crusty gunk, big globs. And the sheen spreads over the surface of the  area for miles." 
Twenty-six dead birds were collected and 30 oil-covered birds were found  alive by Wednesday, two days after the thick, heavy oil was spotted 10 miles  from San Francisco.
Skimmer boats were sucking up what oil they could, and samples of the oil  were sent to Federal Oil Pollution Clean-Up Fund laboratories for comparison  with oil taken from ships that had recently traveled through the waters. 
 
Clinton cuts number of slots for legal refugees 
 
   WASHINGTON - President Clinton on Wednesday lowered the number of refugees  to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to  refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the  Caribbean.
In a memo to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized  entry of up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year  before. That restored the number to its fiscal 1997 level, the lowest figure  in a decade.
Under the new authorization, 48,000 refugees would be allowed in from  Europe, 9,000 from East Asia, 12,000 from Africa, 3,000 from Latin America and  the Caribbean and 4,000 from Near East/South Asia. An additional 2,000 slots  were not allocated. 
 
Americans' eating habits improve, study shows 
 
  ATLANTA - A study says Americans are eating almost 20 percent more  vegetables than they did a quarter-century ago, but many of the veggies aren't  green or leafy - they're deep-fried.
Twenty-five percent of the vegetables consumed by Americans are french  fries, according to Dr. Susan M. Krebs-Smith, author of a study in today's  edition of the journal Cancer.
The study said Americans have improved their diets since the early 1970s  but need to eat even better to help reduce their cancer risk.
Krebs-Smith, a research nutritionist with the National Cancer Institute,  said the explosion of fast-food joints makes potatoes - especially in the form  of french fries - the vegetable people eat most. Half of all servings of  vegetables Americans eat are potatoes, and half of those are french fries. 
 
Family plans to remove man's feeding tube 
 
   MANASSAS, Va. - Virginia's top health official made a last-minute appeal  Wednesday night to the family of a comatose man not to remove the feeding tube  that has kept him alive for 3 1/2 years.
The grieving family of Hugh Finn planned to remove the tube after a court  appeals deadline expired at midnight Wednesday.
But state Secretary of Health and Human Resources Claude Allen tried to  persuade the family to change its mind, even as state attorneys pondered ways  to keep the tube in place without the family's blessing.
Hugh Finn, a former Louisville, Ky., television news anchor, was injured in  a traffic accident in March 1995.
His wife's decision in June to remove the feeding tube divided the family  and led to a court battle over guardianship.
A judge ruled Aug. 31 that Michele Finn would remain as her husband's  guardian and had the right to remove the tube. The family dropped plans to  appeal, leaving her free to remove the feeding tube.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company

62 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 3, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Rep. Johnson Calls for Suspension of Immigration Raids, Temporary Protected Status for Refugees

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Hank Johnson has issued the following news release:

  

 Congressman Hank Johnson (D-GA) joined more than 145 members of Congress sending a letter to President Obama urging the Administration to immediately halt ICE raids targeting Central American families and children. 


  

 The letter also calls on the Administration to find a regional and comprehensive solution to the refugee crisis in Central America including "refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian remedies."   And to guarantee due process and protections for mothers and children fleeing violence in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.  

  

 The full text of the letter is below:

  

 Dear Mr. President:

  

 We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala.  The DHS operation has generated widespread fear and panic in immigrant communities and has far-reaching impacts beyond the alleged targets for removal.  The operation raises numerous due process concerns including meaningful access to legal counsel for mothers and children after apprehension and DHS officers reportedly using deceptive tactics to gain entrance into private residences.  For these reasons and others, we believe that this operation should be immediately suspended until we can ensure no mother or child will be sent back to a country where they would face persecution, torture or death.

  

 Globally, there are currently more refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons - an estimated 60 million - than at any time since World War II.  You and your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by offering refuge to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. We commend you for that.

  

 However, these same fundamental American values have not been applied in your Administration's policies towards Central American refugee mothers and children.  The brutality of violence in Central America is undeniable, and yet this Administration has failed to provide a comprehensive refugee solution for those seeking international refugee protection. According to data shared by DHS, 85% of Central American families in detention have established threshold eligibility for refugee protection.  Rather than preserving our commitment to refugee protection, your Administration continues to pursue policies that treat Central American refugees as an immigration enforcement matter.

  

 Thus far, your Administration has responded to the Central American refugee crisis with an emphasis on deterrence rather than the need for a regional refugee solution.  Your Administration has used family detention, Spanish language communication campaigns in Central America urging people not to come to the United States, and financial assistance to Mexico to deter, arrest, and return those fleeing violence. This strategy has proven to be ineffective, as mothers and children continue to arrive at our Southwest border seeking refugee protection. Desperate Central American mothers and children will continue to flee to the United States and seek protection, regardless of the deterrent actions taken by this Administration.

  

 The recent operation to apprehend and remove families - several of whom reported inadequate legal representation - is the latest failure in this enforcement strategy.  The fact that several of these families were subsequently granted emergency stays of removal indicates that the system has failed these refugees, notwithstanding final administrative removal orders.  A final administrative removal order does not necessarily mean that these mothers and children do not have legitimate claims for refugee protection.  We are gravely concerned that DHS may have already removed mothers and children from the United States and returned them to violent and dangerous situations in their home countries.

  

 The crisis in our hemisphere will only be resolved when the United States engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to this refugee crisis.  This solution should include refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian remedies.  It is critical that this approach include cooperation with other countries in the Western Hemisphere.  The violence in the Northern Triangle of Central America and the resulting refugee flow affects our entire region, and the United States' solution should include a regional refugee resettlement program as well as increased capacity building of asylum systems in neighboring countries.

  

 This comprehensive approach should also include collaboration with non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee protection such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).  Organizations such as UNHCR can assist the United States and our regional partners in screening refugees and can provide critical guidance regarding the best practices for refugee care and management.

  

 The goal of this comprehensive refugee approach should be to ensure that Central American refugees, particularly mothers and children, are able to live free from an endless cycle of violence and persecution. It is time to start working towards a solution that provides a practical and humane response to the mothers and children from Central America fleeing for their lives and seeking safety and protection.  Failure to provide this comprehensive solution will continue to lead to disorder at our border and will further a sense of unease across the United States.

  

 We urge you to immediately halt the current enforcement actions towards Central American mothers and children and take steps to engage in a comprehensive effort with our hemispheric partners to address this regional refugee crisis in an appropriate humanitarian manner.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

  

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

64 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 28, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SOMALIA'S DIFFICULTIES

BYLINE: By Z. Michael Szaz

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

By signing a treaty of cooperation and friendship, w hich includes secret clauses, with Ethiopia and Southern Yemen, bothS oviet surrogates in the Horn of Africa region, the Libyan leader C ol. Muammar el-Qaddafi acquired a new enemy - Somalia.
A communique by the Somali Government on Aug. 24 accused Libya of numerous subversive acts and called the agreement an aggressive military pact directed against the Somali and other moderate governments in the region. Somalia considers the pact a springboard for the Soviet Union to dominate the Horn and the Middle East. 
Geopolitical implications of the pact should give pause to members and staff of the House Subcommittee on Africa who focus on the merits of the national self-determination claims of Somalis in the Ogaden region, which is under Ethiopian administration, rather than on Soviet-Cuban encroachment in the Horn.
The Somali Government finds itself in a difficult situation. Some 1.3 million refugees, Somalis and Oromos from the Ogaden, live in 35 special camps and 800,000 refugees live outside the camps with relatives. They escaped the fighting in their province, where they suffered atrocities and oppression. In addition, 3,000 new refugees arrive daily from the Ogaden, where guerrilla fighting against the Ethiopians continues.
The Western Somali Liberation Front still carries out attacks, and the Ethiopian Army retaliates by burning villages and sometimes poisoning wells. Somali peace offers, based on negotiations about national self-determination and human rights of the Somalis of the Ogaden, has found no positive response in Addis Ababa.
The refugees are a staggering burden for the Somali economy, which also has been damaged by floods in recent months. Before international aid arrived in 1979, the Government used up its own supplies to avoid mass starvation among the refugees. To carry the burden, the Government needs substantial international assistance.  With the aid of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, which is helped by large contributions from the United States and other Western countries, the situation has been somewhat stabilized, but food-dist ribution and warehousing problems persist and transit camps lack ne cessary facilities. Medical assistance, sanitary facilities, a nd the drilling of wells remain the highest priorities. Food distribu tion is no longer a direct Somali responsibility. The Government si gned an agreement with Africare, a voluntary agency, andthe Central M ennonite Committee, in addition to the High Commissioner, and retains only coordinating functions.
Besides the refugee problem, security remains a principal concern to Somalia. With the Soviet-supported Ethiopian Army still fighting the Western Somali Liberation Front in the Ogaden, and Cubans ready to quash any coup attempts in Addis Ababa, a ground invasion is unlikely, although Ethiopians raided Somali territory several times in the last 18 months. In addition, Ethiopian planes attacked Somali villages and refugee camps repeatedly this year, causing numerous deaths and substantial damage.
Politically, the Somali Government is in firm control, although there are opposition elements abroad supported by Ethiopia and Libya that are trying to weaken Somali unity. The continuing military buildup in Ethiopia and Southern Yemen, however, challenges long-term Somali stability. In 1978 and 1979, Ethiopia received $1.5 billion worth of military equipment from the Soviet Union, and further deliveries are being made. There are still 17,000 Cubans,
4,000 Russians, and 2,000 East Germans ''protecting'' the regime in Addis Ababa and ''advising'' the military, state security, and economic ministries.  To this threat, Libya has been added. In the last two years, it has served as the spearhead for Soviet infiltration of Africa. Somalia aroused Colonel Qaddafi's ire by signing an agreement with the United States in August 1980 granting use of Somali military facilities. There will be Libyan financing available both to Ethiopian and Somali exiles who want to weaken Somalia.
Despite these dangers, the Somali Government responded to the Libyan-Ethiopian-Southern Yemen pact by breaking off diplomatic relations with Libya and charging Libya with subversion and with signing an aggressive military pact directed against Somalia, and aimed at destabilizing the Red Sea and Indian Ocean region. Thus, theGovernment took a courageous stand by joining two moderate Arab regimes, Egypt's and the Sudan's, in denounci ng both the Soviet surrogates and the mercurial Colonel Qaddafi.
Washington should recognize Somalia's contributions to Western security and extend to it increased political support and provide more military equipment.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Z. Michael Szaz directs and edits publications of the American Foreign Policy Institute, a research organization specializing in international security problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Cartoon of South America

TYPE: Op-ed

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

66 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 28, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Near Approval of Mission To Aid Central Africa Refugees

Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A44

LENGTH: 649 words

 
The United States inched closer to a humanitarian mission to rescue ill and hungry refugees in central Africa yesterday, endorsing a Canadian plan to establish a multinational headquarters in the region and putting troops on alert for possible airdrops of food and medicine into Zaire.
The operation envisioned by the Canadians would base operations out of Entebbe, Uganda, and involve far fewer soldiers than originally projected just two weeks ago. The Clinton administration said the 400 U.S. support troops already moved to the region may be enough to handle the task, although an additional 200 could be needed. In any case, officials stressed they are not planning to send U.S. combat forces. 
A statement by the White House supported the proposal to locate a headquarters in the region. However, it added that more planning must be done over the next few days before a final decision can be made on airdrops. "It's not a done deal, but it is a statement of our intention," one high-ranking official said.
U.S. officials want to be assured cargo planes will not be fired upon by hostile rebels on the ground and that supplies will be used for relief of refugees rather than hijacked by armed militias. Also in the past, airdrops have injured or killed some of the innocents they were intended to help by dropping pallets on them and by creating out-of-control stampedes for the packages.
The United States and Canada do not want their efforts to halt the flow of refugees returning from Zaire to Rwanda by creating a disincentive to go home, as some United Nations officials fear.
"We are fundamentally committed to helping the refugees, but we want to do so in a way that's effective," State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said.
National security adviser Anthony Lake conceded yesterday that many problems have to be worked out. "I hope they all have solutions," he said. "We just don't know the solutions yet."
Lake also said he hopes African nations will participate in the mission, but the reaction to the plan was cool in Rwanda, which objects to deploying an international force within its borders.
One appeal of operating out of Entebbe is that Western allies could circumvent any Rwandan objections while avoiding areas of Zaire not under government control. Another advantage, officials said, is that the international force could respond quickly to any change in the situation.
The nature of the problem and, therefore the solution, has changed drastically since President Clinton announced earlier this month that he was willing to send up to 5,000 members of the armed forces to the region, with 1,000 ground troops in Zaire.
With the return home of about 600,000 mostly Rwandan Hutu refugees in recent days, officials are debating how extensive the remaining problem is and how best to complete the exodus from Zaire.
Although Rwanda insists the crisis has subsided, some estimates place several hundred thousand refugees remaining in eastern Zaire.
Africa was not the only national security issue on Clinton's plate as he returned to Washington yesterday from a 12-day Asian-Pacific vacation and trade mission. Shortly after landing at the White House in the morning, he was hard at work trying to assemble a new foreign policy team for his second term.
Chief of Staff-designate Erskine Bowles met him with a two-inch-thick binder of transition recommendations covering possible Cabinet selections and potential reactions to those choices by Congress and constituency groups.
Clinton then met with Bowles for three hours, joined at times by telephone by Vice President Gore and outgoing Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta.
Clinton and his family left last night for a Thanksgiving weekend at Camp David, where he will review his briefing book and prepare for possible announcements next week of new secretaries of state and defense.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Rwandan refugees in Zaire wait for trucks to transport them to border. A young boy runs to the head of the line.  Long Exodus A woman and child wait with other Rawandan refugees at Sake, Zaire, for trucks to transport them from the border back to their home region at Goma. U.S. officials backed a Canadian plan to establish a multinational headquarters in the region and put troops on alert for possible airdrops of food.

Copyright 1996 The Washington Post

67 of 996 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

October 4, 2015 Sunday  
Politifact.com Edition

DONALD TRUMP: SYRIAN REFUGEES POTENTIALLY HEADED TO U.S. ARE MOSTLY MEN

BYLINE: JOSHUA GILLIN

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 1396 words

Among Syrian refugees, "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children."
- Donald Trump on Sunday, October 4th, 2015 in an interview on ABC "This Week"
* * *
THE RULING: FALSE
Donald Trump is now against bringing any Syrian refugees to the United States, saying he has concerns about how many able-bodied men seem to be fleeing the war-torn nation.
This Week host George Stephanopoulos asked Trump on Oct. 4, 2015, why he told a New Hampshire crowd he would send refugees back to Syria should he win the presidency. Trump had previously said he would accept some Syrian refugees for humanitarian reasons.
"The migration was strange to me because it seems like so many men," Trump answered. "There aren't that many women, there aren't that many children. It looked like mostly men and they looked like strong men. These looked like physically strong people. And I'm saying, 'Where are all the women? Where are all the children?' " 
Stephanopoulos told Trump that half the refugees are children, which led the billionaire to shift gears and question why the United States was planning to take in so many refugees.
Trump's description of Syrian refugees as not being many children and women didn't sound quite right to us, so we decided to check out it out.
It appears Trump was confusing his talking point over a couple of different issues.
Registered refugees vs. sea arrivals
In the interview, Trump started talking about how he heard America was accepting 3,000 refugees, then 10,000, and "now I hear we want to take in 200,000."
Trump said, "We don't know where they're coming from, we don't know who they are. They could be ISIS. It could be the great Trojan Horse. I mean this could be one of the great Trojan Horses ever since the original."
His campaign did not get back to us to clarify his remarks, but to us and experts we consulted, his answer sounds like he had a different refugee population in mind altogether.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees registers and tracks Syrian refugees in camps spread over several nations, including Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and North African countries. According to numbers we accessed on Oct. 4, the total comes to more than 4 million.
Of those 4 million, 50.3 percent are female, and 51.1 percent are children (boys and girls) 17 years old or younger. In all, only 23.5 percent of refugees across the Middle East and North Africa being counted by the U.N. were men older than 18.
So that settles that argument, right? Not really. Geoffrey Mock, Syrian country specialist for Amnesty International USA, says Trump's anecdote may have been referring to Europe's mass influx of refugees and migrants, not the U.N.-registered refugees in camps that Stephanopoulos was asking about.
"This is a complicated issue, and Trump is right to my mind on a few points, but he's messing up situations, confusing them terribly so his overall point is way off base," Mock said.
Trump likely meant so-called "sea arrivals," refugees and migrants who cross the Mediterranean Sea to continental Europe. The U.N. counts almost 534,000 people who have crossed into Europe this year, with almost 3,000 dying during the journey. To Trump's point, 69 percent of sea arrivals are men, and these are the people dominating headlines about the humanitarian crisis in Europe.
Of those 534,000, about 55 percent of them are from Syria. The rest are from across Asia and Africa, from places like Eritrea, Afghanistan and Sudan. These people are not the same as Syrians in registered refugee camps. But as Trump warned, some do claim to be from Syria and are not, and many are indeed undocumented, experts told PolitiFact.
But the problem with Trump's statement is that none of the majority-male refugees and migrants in Europe are coming to the United States.
Refugee resettlement
We can't confirm where Trump got his 200,000-refugee number, but it may refer to Secretary of State John Kerry's announcement in September that the U.S. would accept 85,000 worldwide refugees in 2016, up from 70,000. In 2017, that number would expand to 100,000, for a total of 185,000 refugees over two years.
To add another wrinkle to Trump's already confusing claims, those won't all be Syrian refugees, but rather refugees from all over the world. Kerry did say some of the expansion was to accommodate Syrians, but there was no indication how many.
The U.N. has said 10 percent, or about 400,000, of the Syrian refugees in camps need to be resettled. President Barack Obama announced that in fiscal year 2016 (through Sept. 30), the United States would accept at least 10,000 refugees from Syria.
Those 10,000 aren't necessarily the type of people who would be ISIS operatives as Trump fears, according to Mock.
"The priorities go to torture survivors, people with serious medical conditions, children and teens on their own, and women and children at risk," Mock said. The people selected undergo screening by state agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security. The process can take years.
That doesn't make for an efficient method of terrorizing the United States, Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow Daveed Gartenstein-Ross said. While it's a legitimate concern that there are ways of beating the screening process, he said, there would be more efficient ways for ISIS cells to reach America than what Trump is fearing.
"Instead of sitting around hoping you win the refugee lottery and then wait years, then pass the screening to get to America, it would be much easier for a terrorist group to send a person through Europe or put them onto an airplane to the United States," Gartenstein-Ross said. "If they could otherwise pass the refugee screening process, they could certainly get on an airplane."
Moreover, the scenario Trump paints doesn't hold up to scrutiny once you take into account that it misrepresents the parties involved.
"When Trump raises concerns about photos of young men among the refugees who have made it to Europe, this has absolutely nothing to do with the Obama-announced resettlement program that will draw upon the population identified by the U.N. as being the most vulnerable among the 4 million Syrians in their refugee camps, all of whom are identified and registered," Mock said.
Our ruling
Trump said "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children" among Syrian refugees.
It appears Trump is conflating two different sets of refugees: Those 534,000 reaching Europe by sea, who are mostly men, and the 4 million Syrians in U.N. refugee camps, most of whom are women and children.
Only about 10,000 refugees in the camps are slated for resettlement in the United States over the next year. Those making the perilous trip to Europe are not.
The priority refugees from this group would be torture survivors, people with serious medical conditions, unaccompanied children and teens, and women and children at risk. Those factors, coupled with background screenings, suggest they would likely not be ISIS operatives waiting to terrorize the United States.
Trump's assessment of the refugee situation is badly mangled. We rate his statement False.
* * *
About this statement:
Published: Sunday, October 4th, 2015 at 6:57 p.m.
Researched by: Joshua Gillin
Edited by: Katie Sanders
Subjects: Foreign Policy, Immigration
Sources: This Week, Interview with Donald Trump, Oct. 4, 2015; Washington Post, "President Obama directs administration to accept at least 10,000 Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year," Sept. 10, 2015; Associated Press, "John Kerry: U.S. to Accept 85,000 Refugees in 2016, 100,000 in 2017," Sept. 20, 2015; The Hill, "Trump: If I win, I'll send Syrian refugees back," Sept. 30, 2015; Washington Post, "Suspicious of Syrian refugees coming to the U.S.? Here's a reality check.," Oct. 2, 2015; European Commission, Asylum statistics, accessed Oct. 4, 2015; United Nations Refugee Agency, "Syria Regional Refugee Response: Inter-agency Information Sharing Portal," accessed Oct. 4, 2015; United Nations Refugee Agency, "Refugees/Migrants Emergency Response: Mediterranean," accessed Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Geoffrey Mock, Amnesty International USA Syrian country specialist, Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow, Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Susan Martin, Georgetown University international migration professor, Oct. 4, 2015

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) PHOTO - Screengrab: Donald Trump says "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children" who make up the refugees from Syria on ABC's "This Week" Oct. 4, 2015. The facts say otherwise.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

68 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 2, 2015 Monday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: U.S Department of State Diplomacy in Action has issued the following news release:

  

 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping them build new lives in all 50 states. 


 Identifying Refugees

 

 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?

 

 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?

 

 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal Year 2016:

 

     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to respond to emergent situations. Entering the U.S. Resettlement System

 

 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S. resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security screening.

 Refugee Screening Process

 

 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of Defense.

 

 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant. USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a &ldquo;sponsorship assurance&rdquo; from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life

 

 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com      

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

69 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 2, 2015 Monday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: U.S Department of State Diplomacy in Action has issued the following news release:

  

 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping them build new lives in all 50 states. 


 Identifying Refugees

 

 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?

 

 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?

 

 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal Year 2016:

 

     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to respond to emergent situations. Entering the U.S. Resettlement System

 

 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S. resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security screening.

 Refugee Screening Process

 

 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of Defense.

 

 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant. USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a &ldquo;sponsorship assurance&rdquo; from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life

 

 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com      

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

71 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 8, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CHIEF OF U.N. AGENCY FOR REFUGEES ASKS DONORS TO GIVE MORE MONEY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 7

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees appealed today for $74 million to help his agency meet a severe budget shortfall.
The commissioner, Poul Hartling, warned that failure to get the money could limit existing and planned refugee programs.
Officials of the commissioner's office said the problems in the agency's $319 million general budget and a $107 million emergency budget for aid to African drought victims marked the most severe financial crisis in the United Nations-related agency's 34-year history and came at a time when the agency's refugee caseload seemed to be expanding steadily.
In an address to the commission's donors, who are opening their annual meeting here, Mr. Hartling, who is from Denmark, also called for ''large contributions'' at a pledging conference scheduled for Nov. 15 at the United Nations in New York so the commission could begin its 1986 programs on time in January. 
''The practical implications could be that refugee settlement or durable solutions will be stopped,'' Mr. Hartling said about the problems. ''Housing and schools for refugees will not be built. Health and basic education services and equipment will have to be reduced to a minimum. And it goes without saying also that the administrative costs of U.N.H.C.R., both in headquarters and the field, are subject to the most severe restrictions.''
 
Agency's Steady Expansion
From a ''nonoperational'' agency formed in 1951 to give international protection to refugees after World War II, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has seen its budget expand steadily to $35.2 million in 1978, when Mr. Hartling became the commissioner, and over $400 million in general and emergency assistance programs this year.
Mr. Hartling said the commission had raised $262 million so far this year in voluntary contributions from its 73 members, or $57 million less than budgeted for general programs. He said the agency also still lacked $17 million in its emergency program for Africa, for a total shortfall of $74 million.
Commission officials said the United States, which provides about 30 percent of the agency's annual budget needs, had already pledged nearly $18 million in additional money, allowing the commission to scale back its original estimated shortfall of $92 million. The officials put much of the blame for the shortfall on an overvalued American dollar, which has driven down the value of contributions in other Western currencies, as well as on the burden imposed on contributing nations by the African drought situation.
''The crisis is not a result of a lack of good will or sympathy towards refugees and their needs,'' Mr. Hartling said. ''The needs of refugees are considerable - in Africa, Asia and Latin America - and I realize that the demands on donors this year have been massive.''
 
'Critical Funding Situation'
''However, it is of absolute primary importance that U.N.H.C.R. be given the resources to do the job which is expected, indeed, demanded of us,'' Mr. Hartling said. ''U.N.H.C.R. is often called upon to undertake additional or special programs - a good example is our African emergency programs -but in essential terms, the general program must remain our first priority. It is for that reason that the critical funding situation we face for the general programs for both the remainder of the 1985 and for 1986 is so serious.''
Western diplomats said the executive committee, which meets annually here in October to work on policy for the commission's development and administration, was expected to discuss possible solutions to the commission's financial troubles that could include changes in budgeting and planning. The diplomats acknowledged, however, that no one could have foreseen how much aid would be needed to deal with this year's crisis in Africa.
''There is a feeling that somehow, something should be done differently and better, but there are no immediate answers,'' one diplomat said. ''It's very hard to plan for a drought situation, or a Latin American or Afghan crisis. The U.N.H.C.R. is indeed the U.N.'s fire brigade. And though there is a crisis shaping up, it's too easy to say they just ought to do things better.'
Mr. Hartling, who is to retire at the end of this year, said the commission's work is complicated not only by the growth in its financial needs, but also by what he called a ''lack of a political solution to the problems'' that give rise to refugees. In addition to the African drought victims, the commission must annually deal with millions of Afghans fleeing the war in their country, as well as the so-called boat people and other refugees still fleeing Vietnam, and refugees in Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
''It is not for me to say what those political solutions might be,'' Mr. Hartling said. ''That belongs to the challenges the United Nations must face as it moves into its fifth decade.''
''When we talk about the work of the United Nations, is this not one of its most positive achievements?'' Mr. Hartling said, noting that his agency had helped an estimated 30 million refugees in its history. ''Yet there are times when it is indeed a depressing task. It is the task of the high commissioner to make the reason of the heart prevail over the reason of states.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Poul Hartling (Victor Lusinchi)

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

72 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 637  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: U.S Department of Defense has issued the following news release:

  

 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping them build new lives in all 50 states. 


 Identifying Refugees

 

 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?

 

 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?

 

 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal Year 2016:

 

     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to respond to emergent situations.

 

 Where Do Refugees Come From?

 

 Date: 10/21/2015 Description: Bar chart showing number of refugee arrivals by processing region for FY2006 - FY2015. - State Dept Image

 Entering the U.S. Resettlement System

 

 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S. resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security screening.

 Refugee Screening Process

 

 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of Defense.

 

 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant. USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a "sponsorship assurance" from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life

 

 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

77 of 996 DOCUMENTS

San Jose Mercury News (California)

November 24, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CENTER REACHES OUT TO REFUGEES FROM AFRICA ON THANKSGIVING HOSTS SHARE AMERICAN CUSTOM TO MAKE NEW COUNTRY SEEM LESS STRANGE

BYLINE: SARA NEUFELD, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 575 words

Now that he's been here for three years, Musa Kamara knows a thing or two about America.
For example, on the fourth Thursday in November, Americans fly all over the country to have dinner with their families.
It's things like that, Kamara said, that every African refugee should know. So on Thursday, Kamara held a Thanksgiving Day feast for African refugees throughout the Bay Area. His aim was to teach the refugees American tradition, and preserve a bit of their own. 
"If all Americans are flying out of state and going all over the place to have dinner with their parents, why can't we meet and have dinner together and say thanks to the Almighty God and America?" asked Kamara, 30, a refugee from Sierra Leone who spent four years in a camp before coming to Arizona in 1997.
Kamara now lives in San Jose with his wife and baby daughter. He works for the refugee resettlement team at San Jose's Catholic Charities and recently founded African Refugee Community Services.
About 80 refugees from countries all over Africa came to Thursday's feast at Saratoga's Ascension Church. Most were dressed in colorful robes and hats from their native countries. They ate some food they knew, like peanut butter soup and sweet potato leaves. And they ate some food they didn't know, like turkey.
Before the feast, the refugees stood in a circle, holding hands, and prayed in English and Arabic. Sister Marilyn Lacey, Kamara's boss at Catholic Charities, thanked God for bringing them together and granting them freedom.
For many refugees, memories of their war-ravaged countries and the families they left behind are still too painful to discuss. Kamara and the other 11 members of African Refugee Community Services understand what they're feeling. So they're trying to create a new extended family in the Bay Area so that no refugee will have to spend holidays alone.
They have only $500 in their bank account, but they're coming together somehow. Kamara spent much of Thursday driving around in a van, picking up refugees who don't yet have American driver's licenses or cars.
"When you don't have any relatives, you don't have anywhere to go; it's kind of depressing," said African Refugee Community Services member Dan Tadesse of Mountain View, who spent his first Thanksgiving in the United States alone 33 years ago after coming from Ethiopia. "Whenever there's any occasion, we make them feel they belong here."
Kamara said he uses the occasions to teach his fellow refugees as much as he can about American customs so the country will seem less foreign.
"Today," Kamara told Thursday's crowd, "is a very special day in America." With a cell phone in the pocket of his khaki pants, he showed one newcomer how to use a digital camera to take pictures of everyone eating.
Twenty-year-old David Kabanda, who came to San Jose three months ago from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, said he didn't think the American people had much faith in anything, until he learned about Thanksgiving.
"This is very important because it shows the unity and the love of America toward other human beings," Kabanda said through a translator. "It is as ifthey have open arms to receive the world."
Angelo Wut was still trying to grasp the concept of Thanksgiving, but he, his wife and four children were grateful for the company.
"I've been here one month," said Wut, 41, a native of Sudan. "I hope, in two months, I know more."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
To donate to African Refugee Community Services, call (408) 325-5155.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Ikuko Shimuzu, a refugee outreach volunteer, speaks with 8-year-old Mike Wamungu, an immigrant from the Congo, at a Thanksgiving dinner in Saratoga sponsored by African Refugee Community Services.
[001124 LO 1B]
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
African immigrants stand in a circle and say a prayer in English and in Arabic before dinner Thursday.
[001124 LO 3B]

Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News 
All Rights Reserved

80 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST 

For Stranded Somali Refugees, 'Friend of America' Is a Deadly Label

BYLINE: JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

SECTION: WORLD; africa

LENGTH: 1254 words


HIGHLIGHT: After waiting years to come to the United States, displaced refugees fear returning to extreme poverty and reprisal from anti-American militant groups.

NAIROBI, Kenya -- Ismail Ali Ibrahim gave away everything he owned: his bed, his sheets, his shirts, his pots, his pans, his plates, even his house.
He didn't care. He was going to America.
But this week, he remained 7,000 miles away, marooned with more than 100 other Somali refugees in a spartan transit center in central Nairobi that smelled of nervous sweat.
Mr. Ibrahim and many of his displaced comrades had been waiting more than two decades to be resettled in the United States and were supposed to fly to America this week. But their hopes were crushed by President Trump's executive order to freeze the refugee flow into the United States for at least four months.
More than 25,000 refugees from Somalia, one of the poorest, hungriest, war-torn countries on earth, were in the pipeline to be resettled in the United States.
Mr. Ibrahim was much closer than most -- so close that, with his ticket, paperwork and bag all zipped up, the thought of it made his voice quiver. He had waited 26 long years for this, living in a sweltering, crowded, disease-ridden refugee camp along the Kenya-Somalia border that is the opposite of hope.
Now his worst fears are shaping up. The Somali refugees who had already been extensively vetted and approved by several American government agencies will most likely be bused back to the camps. Many said that they feared for their lives and that their situation was actually worse than it had been before they came so close to leaving.
"Trump shocked us," Mr. Ibrahim said.
Most of them are now broke, having just two weeks ago given away their worldly possessions in a spree of happiness to friends less fortunate. But more worrisome, many refugees said as they gathered under the shade of a mango tree at the transit center, was the risk that they could be labeled "friends of America." That's a dangerous tag in a poorly policed refugee camp crawling with Islamic militants.
"The Shabab will be suspicious of us," said Deck Abdi Korriyow, another refugee, referring to the militant group that has slaughtered thousands of people across eastern Africa. "They don't want anyone resettled to the U.S. They'll think we've been giving information to the Americans."
Several men around him vigorously nodded when he added, "Who knows what will happen to us next?"
Kenya is home to hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees and many are treated terribly -- constantly harassed, arrested, often beaten, discriminated against, kept in large camps or locked in a soccer stadium during police roundups, and sometimes they have even disappeared. Many Kenyans see Somalia the way much of the world does: as a terrorist threat.
So the refugees have set their sights on a faraway dream. It's called America. The United States runs a vigorous resettlement program, taking in thousands of Somalis each year. Being one of them is like holding a winning lottery ticket and it generates a lot of envy.
Some of the refugees said another reason they dreaded going back to the camps was because they knew some of their neighbors would barely be able to contain their glee that the resettlement had not worked out.
"The people against me will be happy," Mr. Ibrahim said.
The more than 100 approved refugees here are now stuck because they don't have proper papers to walk the streets of Nairobi. They were supposed to be walking the streets of Atlanta, Buffalo, Des Moines and St. Louis by now.
They aren't allowed to leave the transit center, which is in Nairobi's old Indian quarter; it was supposed to be their last stop. The gate here is large and unmarked. Security is serious; many of the refugees who pass through here are hunted in their homelands.
On Wednesday, the center was crowded but relatively quiet. The refugees seemed bored. Somali women in full veils lay on the sidewalk on their backs. Young men lounged in a row of scratched up chairs and were not even talking to one another.
When a chestnut-size mango fell from the tree, a little boy pounced on it, clearly hungry.
The men spoke of "the stress."
"Am I worried?" asked Salad Rage Saleh, thin and antsy. "Ever since I've been born I've been worried."
American officials did not address the fears of Shabab reprisals directly. One State Department official said that the government would continue to show compassion to refugees but that it was also important to protect American citizens.
Refugee officials said the Shabab fears could be real, but that some refugees also played up such concerns in an attempt to delay or stop their return to the camps, which can be depressing on a good day.
Life for many Somali refugees means confronting famine, anarchy, pestilence and death on a daily basis. Ever since the government collapsed in 1991, Somalia has been stuck in perpetual crisis.
One set of three brothers at the transit camp fled Somalia after their parents were killed 25 years ago, trudging across the Kenya border as three lost souls. For more than a quarter-century, the brothers had been living together in a small makeshift house in a refugee camp, usually jobless and surviving off the monthly United Nations rations, which they said had been cut down to seven pounds of grain, one cup of oil and a bottle capful of salt. The Kenyans have been threatening to close this camp because of terrorism fears.
The brothers had just cleared the final medical checks to be resettled in Rhode Island. Ahmed Hassan, the eldest, a quiet man with a red pen in his pocket, spoke proudly of how in recent days they had been "trained" to wear jackets, hats and gloves when it was cold.
While some Americans have said in recent days that they oppose Mr. Trump's block on refugees, others have said it makes them feel safer. Refugee officials in East Africa have been quick to point out that, in the Somalis' case, these refugees are among the most vetted people entering the United States.
The resettlement process usually takes four to six years to complete and involves database checks, fingerprinting, countless forms and hours of background interviews. The tiny percentage of refugees who make it all the way through are selected because they are considered the most vulnerable of the vulnerable.
Most will now return to the same squalid camps where they had been living for years. Others in the pipeline will be put on what the State Department calls indefinite hold.
When this was announced at the transit center on Saturday at a meeting in the yard, several men cried.
"It was pretty shattering for me," said Lori Seymour, the official with the International Organization for Migration who made the announcement.
This week, the group spoke of all the things they had been looking forward to in America: security, freedom, pizza, meat, driving a car and seeing buildings made not of sticks, but of "mirrors and stone," as one man put it.
"I was even looking forward to paying taxes," Mr. Hassan said. "If you pay taxes, that means you have a job and you're making money, right?"
Follow Jeffrey Gettleman on Twitter @gettleman.
PHOTOS: Ismail Ali Ibrahim, above left, and Salad Rage Saleh are among more than 100 Somali refugees who were ready to resettle in the United States but are now marooned in a transit center in Nairobi, right. There's little to do there but play table soccer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SVEN TORFINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles

	Full Executive Order Text: Trump's Action Limiting Refugees Into the U.S.
	A Bloody Reminder for Somalia: Chaos Is Never Far Away
	Misery Follows as Somalis Try to Flee Hunger
	Somalia's Wars Swell a Refugee Camp in Kenya

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

82 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 18, 2016 Monday

Washington: Van Hollen Calls for Suspension of Immigration Raids, Temporary Protected Status for Refugees

LENGTH: 1073  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Chris Van Hollen has issued the following news release:

  

 Maryland Congressman Chris Van Hollen and more than 145 House Democrats have sent a letter to President Obama calling for a suspension of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) home raids that have targeted Central American families and children. 


 

 "We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala," the Members wrote. "The crisis in our hemisphere will only be resolved when the United States engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to this refugee crisis. This solution should include refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian remedies."

 

 The full text of the letter is below:

 

 Dear Mr. President:

 

 We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala.  The DHS operation has generated widespread fear and panic in immigrant communities and has far-reaching impacts beyond the alleged targets for removal.  The operation raises numerous due process concerns including meaningful access to legal counsel for mothers and children after apprehension and DHS officers reportedly using deceptive tactics to gain entrance into private residences.  For these reasons and others, we believe that this operation should be immediately suspended until we can ensure no mother or child will be sent back to a country where they would face persecution, torture or death.

 

 Globally, there are currently more refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons - an estimated 60 million - than at any time since World War II.  You and your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by offering refuge to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. We commend you for that.

 

 However, these same fundamental American values have not been applied in your Administration's policies towards Central American refugee mothers and children.  The brutality of violence in Central America is undeniable, and yet this Administration has failed to provide a comprehensive refugee solution for those seeking international refugee protection. According to data shared by DHS, 85% of Central American families in detention have established threshold eligibility for refugee protection.  Rather than preserving our commitment to refugee protection, your Administration continues to pursue policies that treat Central American refugees as an immigration enforcement matter.

 

 Thus far, your Administration has responded to the Central American refugee crisis with an emphasis on deterrence rather than the need for a regional refugee solution.  Your Administration has used family detention, Spanish language communication campaigns in Central America urging people not to come to the United States, and financial assistance to Mexico to deter, arrest, and return those fleeing violence. This strategy has proven to be ineffective, as mothers and children continue to arrive at our Southwest border seeking refugee protection. Desperate Central American mothers and children will continue to flee to the United States and seek protection, regardless of the deterrent actions taken by this Administration.

 

 The recent operation to apprehend and remove families - several of whom reported inadequate legal representation - is the latest failure in this enforcement strategy.  The fact that several of these families were subsequently granted emergency stays of removal indicates that the system has failed these refugees, notwithstanding final administrative removal orders.  A final administrative removal order does not necessarily mean that these mothers and children do not have legitimate claims for refugee protection.  We are gravely concerned that DHS may have already removed mothers and children from the United States and returned them to violent and dangerous situations in their home countries.

 

 The crisis in our hemisphere will only be resolved when the United States engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to this refugee crisis.  This solution should include refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian remedies.  It is critical that this approach include cooperation with other countries in the Western Hemisphere.  The violence in the Northern Triangle of Central America and the resulting refugee flow affects our entire region, and the United States' solution should include a regional refugee resettlement program as well as increased capacity building of asylum systems in neighboring countries.

 

 This comprehensive approach should also include collaboration with non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee protection such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).  Organizations such as UNHCR can assist the United States and our regional partners in screening refugees and can provide critical guidance regarding the best practices for refugee care and management.

 

 The goal of this comprehensive refugee approach should be to ensure that Central American refugees, particularly mothers and children, are able to live free from an endless cycle of violence and persecution. It is time to start working towards a solution that provides a practical and humane response to the mothers and children from Central America fleeing for their lives and seeking safety and protection.  Failure to provide this comprehensive solution will continue to lead to disorder at our border and will further a sense of unease across the United States.

 

 We urge you to immediately halt the current enforcement actions towards Central American mothers and children and take steps to engage in a comprehensive effort with our hemispheric partners to address this regional refugee crisis in an appropriate humanitarian manner.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

88 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

June 14, 1980, Saturday, Final Edition

Refugee 'Protector';
U.N. Official Oversees Growing Tide Of the World's Displaced Citizens

BYLINE: By Christopher Dickey, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: First Section; A14

LENGTH: 1145 words

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua

"This person here," said Poul Hartling, 65, talking about himself with an air of incredulity, "is the protector of all the refugees in the world."
That is close to 10 million people.  In one way or another Hartling, a former prime minister of Denmark and since 1977 the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, must find ways of coping with all of them.
They are the boat people of Southeast Asia, the persecuted tribesmen of Africa, Afghans fleeing the Soviet war machine, and soon, as the governments that invited Hartling here to Central America fear, they may include thousands of Salvadorans and Guatemalans displaced by the growing turmoil in their homelands. 
They are not Cubans, however, at least not as far as Hartling is concerned.
He is not convinced that the majority of Cubans now flooding the United States were fleeing political persecution so much as seeking to join relatives or find economic opportunities.  "We have to differentiate between refugees and immigrants," said Hartling.  "I never said the Cubans were refugees.  My feeling is that case by case you can find refugees among them.  But taken as a whole you cannot say they are refugees."
It is obviously a sensitive point with him.  He reiterates, "We are not saying that any Cuban coming out of Cuba is a refugee.  No never.  Not.  Not."
As a result, though the United States is one of the principal financial contributors to the high commissioner's office, it is getting only limited help from Hartling's staff in this currrent crisis.  Primarily they are concerning themselves with the resettlement of those few Cubans who do not want to remain in the United States or those President Carter has said cannot.
"We are not looking into 100,000 cases but only into a few hundred," Hartling said.
For all of Washington's anxieties, the high commissioner suggested, the United States is capable of coping with the Cuban influx on its own.  Hartling's resources are put to work in areas that have no means of helping the uprooted masses who flow across their frontiers.
Hartling talks about the suffering millions in Africa who make up almost half of the world's refugee population but are largely ignored outside their own continent.  "They die in the jungle," he said.  "They say to me 'Can't we find a border to cross?  We want to be boat people.'"
Hartling believes as most people who deal with refugees do, that the preferred solution to their plight is repatriation.  The second alternative is temporary resettlement in nearby havens, usually referred to as countries of first asylum.
The least-favored solution is permanent resettlement, but it is for many the only solution.  And for many of these this means they will find new homes in the United States, which accepts more refugees for permanent resettlement than any other country in the world.  Currently, for instance, 14,000 of about 25,000 Indochinese being resettled each month are destined for the United States, according to Hartling.
The high commissioner does not like to speculate about the future.  "We do not go around the world looking for problems," he said.  But as he visits Venezuela, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua and Mexico he is meeting with government officials who are extremely concerned about the potential for a new explosion of refugees in this area within a few years and quite possible within a few months.
Central America is just beginning to recover, a year later, from the massive flow of refugees out of Nicaragua.  At the height of the fighting last June and July 100,000 Nicaraguans fled to neighboring Costa Rica and Honduras while another 800,000 people were displaced within its borders.  Altogether they made up close to half the population.
The high commissioner's office has plowed almost $5.5 million into their repatriation, including health and agricultural programs "so they will have something to return to," as Hartling put it.
The high commissioner also took on the responsibility for several hundred families of former Nicaraguan National Guardsmen who sought asylum in Honduras after their defeat at the hands of the Sandinistas.  Partly to avoid political problems with Nicaragua, these people were never officially declared refugees and are now, with some difficulty, being absorbed into Honduran society.
But even as the Nicaraguan crisis is drawing to a close, refugees are beginning to flow out of El Salvador in ever greater numbers.  Officially they only number in the hundreds at the moment, but, as the terrorism of left-wing guerrillas, right-wing extremists and an increasingly active Army increases, some of Salvador's neighbors fear as many as half a million people may try to excape that tiny, densely populated country.
Guatemala meanwhile is also the scene of rising violence.  If anything resembling full-scale war breaks out there, floods of refugees, many of them uneducated and largely unskilled Indian farmers, could be expected to cross the border into Mexico.
Many Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees could also be expected to come to Nicaragua, which is struggling just to keep its own people fed, or to Costa Rica, which is already, in Hartling's words, "A Noah's ark or a Babylon, if you like," of refugees.
The potential for crisis is enormous, not only for this area but for the United States.  Washington must cope not only with the officially acknowledged refugees for whom Hartling is responsible, but with thousands of people who, under slightly different circumstances would be eligible for asylum in the world's eyes but are now considered and treated as illegal aliens.
According to U.S. immigration officials in Mexico City substantial numbers of Salvadorans are apparently slipping into the United States.  Some of them are technocrats and low level Salvadoran government employees who pay as much as $500 to smugglers to fly them to the Mexican-U.S. border and slip them across.  Poorer Salvadorans are making their way on buses with the same goal.
They seek the physical security and the economic promise of the United States, hoping it will be their country of first and last asylum, at least until peace is restored in their homeland.
Congressman Bill Alexander (D-Ark.), whose constituents are concerned about the Cuban refugee camp at Fort Chafee and who visited Nicaragua earlier this week as part of a special presidential mission, is attempting to organize a hemispheric conference to cope with refugee problems.  Alexander found that the Nicaraguans were willing to help and tentative plans were laid to hold such a meeting within the year.
Yet, as Hartling makes clear, the basic problem will never be solved until most of the refugees can go back to their homelands.  In this and in many other parts of the world, that time seems increasingly remote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, Poul Hartling . . . emphasizes repatriation

Copyright 1980 The Washington Post

89 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

December 11, 2015 Friday

Syrian refugee crisis needs both compassion, discernment

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 689 words

In recent weeks, the partisan banter related to Syrian refugees has reached a fevered pitch.
I sense it's time to be very candid and maybe even break a few pastoral confidences. I spent 19 years serving East Africa in church development, education, and media. About 10 years ago, I started to conceptualize I may get a USA posting. So, I met every immigrant I could when I visited America, and when I took a USA posting three years ago, I went full-bore on meeting as many immigrants as possible. I'd guess I've interacted with over 1,000 and maybe as many as 2,000 immigrants. 
With many, their context is new to me, and I have lots of cultural learning to do. However, if they are from Africa's Great Lakes, I know the context well. The region has a history of conflict. Some come to America as refugees. I've twice interacted with an African immigrant that I quickly realized most in his "home" nation would consider a war criminal. Other times, I've had some strong suspicions. I was struck with how naive the American immigration system can be. I've felt that in the political rhetoric of the day, the vetting process was inadequate. With these experiences, a terrorist entering the United States under the cover of refugee status seems a distinct possibility.
I've also been friends and maybe even the pastor for USA embassy personnel who do immigration interviews. I've been amazed at the pace of their work. My conversations that lead me to judgment take hours. Their conversations and work pace allow only a few minutes. They are horribly overworked. Time constraints will mean they miss details. All I've known have leaned heavily toward a sense of when in doubt, don't issue a visa.
Yet, I also see that immigrants represent the values that most resonate with my interpretation of the ideals of America. They are more likely to be employed than native-born Americans. Asian and African immigrants are twice as well educated as native-born Americans. Almost all immigrant groups have lower rates of divorce.
They have more kids. Their children are more likely to be born to married parents. They attend church more often. They reason in community. Their homes are multi-generational. They have higher rates of entrepreneurial success.
Though I'm currently a political abstainer, I tend to vote conservative. I find my conservative family values are more represented in immigrants to America than in native-born Americans.
The partisan banter about immigration strikes me as paranoid. It's driven by fear. My boss told me over and over again to fear not. His answer to fear was to act out of sacrifice, courage, and compassion. Love always overcomes fear.
Pragmatically, it is a minuscule number of refugees who are really terrorists. Yes, the vetting process should be improved. Hire more people. Slow down the interviews. Get some Americans who know the cultural details as consultants. Yet, recognize the relationship networks that bring potential terrorists to America are already here.
The immigration river can't be stopped, but it can be stewarded. Closing borders and such banter only fuel the social and economic reasons that create the frustrations that fuel terrorism. Since most Iraqi and Syrian refugees are fleeing the terror of ISIS, allowing them to become part of the American experience will strengthen our security.
Practically when refugees find education, employment, and opportunity in the USA, the Internet gives them a voice of reason back "home."
My American Evangelical family, when you are tempted to blindly bash Syrian refugees, please read your Bible. It shows that refugee communities have always changed their "home" nations. Just follow Daniel, Nehemiah, and Paul's refugee journeys. As an American Evangelical whose bottom line is evangelism, what price will we pay if our immigration policy prevents a Daniel, Nehemiah, or Paul from entering our borders?
Both discernment and compassion are required to process Syrian refugees.
Dave Jenkins, of Carol Stream, is founder of a Chicago-area church called Nations Chapel. He and his family spent 19 years in East Africa in church development, education and media.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

91 of 996 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

September 28, 2017 Thursday  
Politifact.com Edition

PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP REDUCES REFUGEE CAP TO 45,000 FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018

BYLINE: MIRIAM VALVERDE

SECTION: POLITIFACT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 479 words

Limit legal immigration
"We will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers, the forgotten people. Workers. We're going to take care of our workers." 
* * *
Sources:
Subjects: Immigration
* * *
TRUMP-O_METER: IN THE WORKS
President Donald Trump plans to admit no more than 45,000 refugees from around the world in fiscal year 2018, a significant drop from the cap of 110,000 set for 2017 by predecessor Barack Obama.
The president, in consultation with Congress, determines the maximum number of refugees admitted into the United States per fiscal year. The 2018 year begins Oct. 1 and ends Sept. 30, 2018.
Here's the regional breakdown for top admissions in 2018:
 19,000 from Africa
 5,000 from East Asia
 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia
 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean
 17,500 from Near East and South Asia
A ceiling of 45,000 refugees "is consistent with our foreign policy goals and operational capacity in light of additional security vetting procedures that we are implementing, as well as the domestic asylum backlogs that (Department of Homeland Security) is currently facing," a U.S. government official told reporters on Sept. 27.
The Trump administration is currently reviewing the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program and has started strengthening the refugee vetting process, officials said.
Reducing the number of refugees allowed in the country per year is one way to limit legal immigration. Refugees are admitted under a refugee status and must apply for lawful permanent residence one year after their arrival.
Trump earlier this year expressed support for an immigration bill from Republican senators to limit to 50,000 the number of refugees admitted per fiscal year.
Trump has also said via executive orders that the admission of more than 50,000 refugees in fiscal year 2017 "would be detrimental to the interests of the United States." At least 53,605 refugees have arrived in the United States as of Sept. 28, according to data from the State Department's Refugee Processing Center.
A refugee cap of 45,000 for fiscal year 2018 is nearly a 60 percent decline from the 2017 ceiling. This reduction is in line with Trump's promise to limit legal immigration.
We'll continue to monitor future refugee caps and other immigration measures seeking to restrict legal immigration. For now, we continue to rate this promise In the Works.
* * *
Sources:
State Department, Background Briefing: U.S. Government Officials On the Refugee Cap for Fiscal Year 2018, Sept. 27, 2017
State Department, Data on refugee arrivals
White House, Executive order: protecting the nation from foreign terrorist entry into the united states, Jan. 27, 2017
White House, Executive Order Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States, March 6, 2017
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Refugees, Last Reviewed/Updated: 03/23/2017

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIDEO: PolitiFact is tracking the promises of President Donald Trump. See them all at PolitiFact.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2017 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

94 of 996 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 7, 2016 Wednesday

Nearly 50 Million Children Are Refugees, Unicef Report Finds

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 452 words

ABSTRACT
According to the agency, children make up a third of the world's population but about half of all refugees. 

FULL TEXT
Correction Appended
Nearly 50 million children worldwide have migrated across borders or been forcibly displaced by conflicts, the United Nations said on Tuesday in a new report meant to emphasize the trauma children face from war, climate change and poverty. 
Distributed by Unicef, the United Nations Children's agency, the report said more than half of these children, roughly 28 million, have fled violence and insecurity.
Children also represent a disproportionate and growing segment of those who have sought refuge outside their country of birth, the report said. While children make up about a third of the global population, they account for about half of all refugees.
An executive summary of the report, titled "Uprooted," described it as the first comprehensive presentation of global data about the affected children: "where they are born, where they move and some of the dangers they face along the way."
The report said that last year, two countries - Syria and Afghanistan - accounted for nearly half of all child refugees as classified by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It also showed that the number of child refugees has more than doubled in the past 10 years.
Unicef issued the report a few weeks before the annual United Nations General Assembly, when world leaders will converge to meet against a backdrop of the protracted conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan, South Sudan and other parts of the Middle East and Africa that together are helping to drive the global refugee and migrant crises.
"Children do not bear any responsibility for the bombs and bullets, the gang violence, persecution, the shriveled crops and low family wages driving them from their homes," the report said.
Turkey is host to the largest total number of recent refugees, with more than three million people fleeing the civil war in Syria. It quite likely has the largest number of child refugees, too, the report said. But Lebanon, relative to its population, is host to more refugees than any other country: Roughly one in five people in Lebanon is a refugee.
The report also showed that among migrant children, three out of every five live in Asia or Africa. In the Americas, home to roughly 6.3 million child migrants, four out of five live in just three countries: the United States, Mexico and Canada.
Correction: September 6, 2016, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article gave the wrong day for the release of the Unicef report on refugees and displaced people. It was made public on Tuesday, not Monday.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

96 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

July 22, 2010 Thursday 
Correction Appended  
Late Edition - Final

Somali Refugees Rediscover Fear in a Ugandan Haven

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; KAMPALA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1049 words

KAMPALA, Uganda -- ''Sometimes I get these bad dreams,'' said Ahmed Uleh, his eyes hidden behind shiny aviator sunglasses. ''Like they are trying to cut off my head.''
Mr. Uleh, 29, said he was kidnapped in Somalia last year by the Shabab, the militant Islamist insurgent group that claimed responsibility for blowing up two gatherings of soccer fans in Uganda during the final game of the World Cup this month, killing 76 people and putting East Africa on high alert.
Mr. Uleh's captors tied his legs and arms behind a chair, he said, and beat him. After being freed, Mr. Uleh said he donned a woman's burqa, pretended to be a mother carrying a baby in her arms and made his way past rebel checkpoints to Somalia's capital, Mogadishu, before catching a flight out. 
He arrived here in Uganda's capital, Kampala, last year, joining tens of thousands of other Somalis who have fled decades of violence back home, to come live in a country diplomats and United Nations officials call a refugee's paradise.
Now that paradise is under threat. Since the attacks, the military and police presence has heightened, some travelers from the Horn of Africa have been turned away at borders and changes to asylum protocol have put Somalis like Mr. Uleh on edge.
Adding to the anxiety among refugees, an agency working here to help resettle them in the United States abruptly left the country, raising fears that hundreds had been stranded.
The developments could endanger the attraction of Uganda as a precious transit point or final destination for the droves of people fleeing the many dangers of Somalia, including the brutality of insurgent groups like the Shabab.
According to the United Nations, Somalia produces the third most refugees in the world, behind Afghanistan and Iraq, and Uganda is a natural haven for them.
It has one of the most liberal refugee policies in Africa, granting approval to virtually all asylum applicants from the region, except Rwanda, which seeks to have its refugees returned.
Here in Kampala, Somalis have built a flourishing and assimilated community, selling sheep, fixing cars, running restaurants and playing soccer in a neighborhood that many here call Little Mogadishu.
Mr. Uleh himself dresses more like a trendy nightclub D.J. than an impoverished refugee, and thousands of Somalis here are in the middle of an applications process to be resettled in the United States.
The World Cup was supposed to be a celebration for Somalis, too, as one of the tournament's official songs was performed by a popular Somali-born rapper, K'Naan, making him a hero to many young Somali men.
But then, in the second half of the final game, three explosions ripped through two popular sites where fans were watching. The Shabab claimed responsibility a day later, and for Uganda's Somali community, a new reality was soon ushered in.
The police stopped registering new refugees immediately after the attacks. The process has since reopened with new regulations and there has been a surge in registrations, but community leaders said they believed that there were many who were too timid to come forward.
They say a chill has descended on the once friendly streets of Kampala. Last week, an Eritrean man was beaten to death by a mob that apparently thought he was Somali.
Community leaders say more than 20 Somalis have also been arrested from the neighborhood, including a popular businessman, and many more have been picked up and questioned.
''We have stepped up vigilance in all corners, but our people are very hospitable,'' said Musa Ecweru, Uganda's state minister for disasters. ''We don't want xenophobia here. There is a lot going on at the moment.''
Refugees in Little Mogadishu have a larger worry lurking in the back of their minds -- the dream of America.
Last week, the Joint Voluntary Agency, which processes resettlement applications of refugees on behalf of the United States government, picked up and left the country days before a major interview session. Refugees say they do not know why.
''I just hope they come back,'' said Ahmed Adam, 21, who is one of hundreds who was supposed to be interviewed last week.
American officials confirmed the agency's withdrawal, describing it as a temporary move because of the attacks. Security has been beefed up in town, and more than 60 agents from the F.B.I. are in the country investigating the bombings. What they find could have a major impact on how liberal the environment for Somalis in Uganda remains.
''Resettlement of refugees to the United States is a lengthy process,'' said Joann Lockard, a spokesperson for the State Department in Uganda. ''At this time, the July 11 attacks have not altered the process for Somali refugees in Uganda from the U.S. perspective.''
The United States resettles thousands of Somalis to America every year. More than 50,000 have been resettled since fiscal year 2004 alone, according to the State Department.
From the perspective of some of the Somalis in Uganda, veterans of refugee life, the attacks are another setback in a long and unpredictable line of interviews, security checks and bulletin-board announcements.
Ali Mohammed Muse, 28, is one. He and his mother arrived in Uganda from Somalia in 1991, and she was resettled to the United States. At his refugee camp in Uganda, Mr. Muse worked as a youth leader and soccer coach.
Now he lives in Little Mogadishu, hoping to be reunited with his mother in Seattle. But Mr. Muse fears that the terrorist attacks have dented his chances, and shakes his head helplessly.
''I don't know why, but I feel like I am guilty,'' he said. ''Maybe I look like one; maybe I have the same name.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2010


CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Kampala Journal article on July 22, about the concerns of Somali refugees in Uganda after the July 11 bombings in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, that were carried out by militants from the Shabab, a Somalian Muslim extremist group, misstated the year that Ali Mohammed Muse, a refugee who worried that the attack hurt his chances of emigrating to the United States, had come to Uganda. It was 1991, not 2004. The article also misstated the age of another refugee, Ahmed Uleh, who said he had once been kidnapped by the Shabab. He is 29, not 34.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Somali girl walked home from school with her Ugandan classmates. Somalis have built a flourishing community that many here call Little Mogadishu.
 Ahmed Uleh, 34, said he was kidnapped in Somalia last year by the Shabab. He arrived in Kampala last year, joining tens of thousands of other Somalis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC HOFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)                                          

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company

97 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 2, 2018 Friday

Remarks at a Meeting of the Third Committee on the Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)

LENGTH: 482 words

Washington: U.S. Mission to the United Nations has issued the following news release:    Thank you, Mr. Chair, and to UN High Commissioner for Refugees for that thorough and inspiring report.  The United States and UNHCR remain strong partners in our effort to protect and find durable solutions for the millions of refugees, stateless persons, internally displaced, and other persons of concern around the world. The United States is committed to continue to lead the world in humanitarian assistance efforts as close to refugees' homes as possible in order to meet their needs until they can return home safely, voluntarily, and with dignity. To this end, the United States remains the largest single donor of humanitarian assistance worldwide, including through providing nearly $1.6 billion in Fiscal Year 2018 to UNHCR alone.  
We recognize UNHCR performs an invaluable service offering life-saving support to those desperately in need.  Despite significant U.S. and other donor contributions, the gap between needs and available resources continues to grow. There must be a redoubling of efforts to share the burden, promote refugee inclusion and self-reliance, and work to end conflicts. As Secretary of State Pompeo recently stated, "The best way to help the most people is to promote burden sharing with partners and allies."  To this end, we are grateful for the efforts of other countries to take on additional responsibilities for those in need of protection. Examples are evident on almost every continent. We applaud the many countries throughout Latin America who have generously opened their doors to the unprecedented outflow of the more than two million Venezuelans. In Africa, Ethiopia is finalizing a legally binding proclamation to expand refugees' access to work, education, and other basic services, and recently allowed refugees to receive vital documents. In the Middle East, the Government of Jordan has committed to allowing all children access to public education and, since 2016, has issued more than 87,000 formal work permits to Syrian refugees. I could give further examples from Turkey as well, especially with respect to Syrian refugees, and in Asia Thailand's granting of nationality to stateless persons, which has allowed them to have access to education and work.  The United States commends UNHCR for its reform efforts to date, initiated by the 2016 Headquarters Review. Including its efforts to ensure maximum efficiency, transparency, and accountability. All of these changes and more are deeply important to the United States and we seek the greatest protection for those in need and the most effective use of scarce resources.  We reaffirm our commitment to working with other governments, the United Nations, the private sector and civil society organizations as a means to increase the effectiveness of the humanitarian system.  Thank you very much. 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

101 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

February 25, 2007 Sunday

Rwandans find a new home, help in Dayton; 
The 300 refugees in the area are the largest community in U.S., one man says.

BYLINE: By James Cummings Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 276 words

DAYTON - Dayton has the largest population of Rwandan refugees in the United States, said Pio Ngilik, a Rwanda native working to help his countrymen gain legal status in America. "The last time we tried to count, there were about 300 people including children," Ngilik said. "The second largest concentration is in North Carolina from Raleigh and Durham to Greensboro. But they don't have as many as we have here." 
Gregory Garland, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department Africa Bureau, couldn't confirm that Dayton's population of Rwandans was the largest, but he indicated it's possible.
"There are relatively few Rwandans in the United States. They're not a major population like the Nigerians or some other groups," Garland said. "There are only 1,651 Rwandans who have officially come through the refugee program. There are probably a lot more who have come through by other channels, but we don't keep track of them at the State Department."
Dayton has hundreds of Rwandans living in the area because of the House of the People's reputation as a place where refugees can get help, Ngilik said.
Most of the Rwandans who have come to the House of the People, located on Holt Street, have gained formal asylum in the United States. And most of them remain here, living and working in and around Dayton.
"And we try to educate our children about Rwanda. Living in America, they take up everything they see here. They can come to despise their own language. We try to tell them they can love America and not lose their roots."
Contact this reporter at (937) 225-2395 or jcummings@DaytonDaily News.com.
? Rwandans appreciate 'powerful,
democratic' U.S. Article on A6

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pio Ngilik

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

102 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 24, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Ecology: 'Environmental Refugees' Identified

Li Xiguang

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A02; SCIENCE: NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 198 words

 
Spreading deserts, shrinking forests, soil erosion, drought and other environmental problems have sent at least 25 million people fleeing their homelands worldwide, a figure that could skyrocket to as high as 200 million in the near future, international environmentalists have warned.
"Environmental refugees" -- mainly from Africa, Asia and Central America -- comprise 44 percent of all refugees in the world today, the Climate Institute reported Wednesday in a study. However, this alarming migration could be slowed if the United States and other industrialized countries provided more economic rather than military assistance and reduced the heavy debt burden on developing countries, researchers from the Climate Institute said.
"Considering that we don't have a cold war, the U.S. government must restructure some of its foreign assistance rather than for military assistance," said John Topping, president of the Climate Institute.
About $ 25 billion per year -- directed toward such programs as upgrading agriculture, planting trees, cleaning water and primary education in developing countries -- would result in many fewer environmental refugees, he noted.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1995 The Washington Post

103 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 21, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

All Aid Is Political

BYLINE: By Chester A. Crocker;  Chester A. Crocker, a professor of diplomacy at Georgetown University, was Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs in the Reagan Administration.

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

Nothing better illustrates the lessons and risks of humanitarian intervention than the fast-changing situation in Central Africa. It reminds us that intervention (just like nonintervention) is an inherently political action with inescapable political consequences.
The United States should have learned this in Bosnia, Somalia and northern Iraq. Labeling an intervention humanitarian may temporarily allay the qualms of public opinion, but it does not dilute the political effects on a region. By the same token, if we decide not to step into a crisis, our determination not to get involved does not free us of political and ethical responsibility for our inaction. 
 Look at Africa. Our post-Somalia paralysis prevented us in 1994 from calling for Western intervention in Rwanda to halt the killing of a half million Tutsi by the Hutu majority. This butchery could have been prevented by the prompt deployment of an international force with a mandate to isolate and disarm the extremist Hutu militia and to detain their leaders for a war crimes tribunal.
When the tide turned and a Tutsi rebel movement (now Rwanda's Government) drove nearly a million Hutu refugees into Zaire, we rushed in to set up refugee camps. But our belated humanitarian spasm did nothing to help the refugees free themselves from the grip of the Hutu militia leaders; nor did we act to turn these warlords over to a war crimes tribunal. The refugee camps soon disrupted Zaire, inflaming Hutu-Tutsi tensions within the country, aggravating relations between Zaire and Rwanda and providing a base for the Hutu militia to raid Rwanda.
Thus, two years later, the Clinton Administration was facing allied and public pressure to "do something" about the impending disaster in Zaire. Despite the obviously political nature of the problem, the United States and Canada were determined to confine any action to a "humanitarian" response, even asking for the agreement of local players before we intervened. Pentagon planners, fearing any proximity to ethnic strife, made it clear that the mission was not to police, disarm, detain or arrest anyone.
To the Administration's vast relief, the refugee crisis largely resolved itself last weekend. No American ground troops will be sent to Zaire, although military airlifts and logistical support will be needed. How did it all change so quickly? Because the Rwandan Government and Zairean rebels took matters into their own hands, fearing that the United States might make the problem worse by sustaining and nourishing the camps.
Zairean rebels (mostly local Tutsi acting in coordination with the Rwandan Government) liberated perhaps 600,000 Hutu refugees near Goma from their militia warlords; the same thing is likely to happen at camps farther south. Hutu civilians rushed to return to Rwanda, while Hutu remnants of the former Rwandan Army and the militia and their followers are moving deeper into Zaire.
So what are the real lessons here? Most important, if America is not prepared to use its muscle to address underlying political problems, it should think twice about creating and sustaining humanitarian safe havens and corridors. When humanitarian action becomes unavoidable, it is equally vital that we link it to a broader political strategy.
In Central Africa, that strategy should have been to clamp down on the Hutu extremists who organized the hatred through radio campaigns and unleashed the carnage in the first place. It is not too late to provide help in this regard; we should share our intelligence reports with some area governments and provide legal expertise and financial aid to further the efforts of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.
Also, greater care should be taken in describing problems in Central Africa and elsewhere as "ethnic conflicts." If it were that simple, would hundreds of thousands of Hutu be streaming back to their villages in Tutsi-controlled Rwanda?
Civil wars are too volatile and costly to handle reactively. Before violence erupts again, we should more actively push Central African nations toward political solutions. In moving on from the Mobutu era and solving its many problems -- revitalizing the economy, instituting democracy, restoring collapsing institutions -- Zaire needs help from the United States and its allies. And it needs help now, before the next "humanitarian" crisis forces our hand.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

105 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

June 18, 2008 Wednesday  
Suburban Edition

Conflicts Displacing More People

BYLINE: Colum Lynch; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 17

 The war in Iraq and the conflicts in Colombia, Somalia and the Darfur region of Sudan have driven an increase in the global population of refugees and the displaced, according to a report by the U.N.'s chief refugee agency. 
The number of refugees climbed for the second consecutive year, rising from 9.9 million to 11.4 million, following a decade-long decline in the global refugee population. The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees assisted more than 25 million people last year, marking an "unprecedented" peak in the agency's operations, according to its 2007 Global Trends report.
Syria, Jordan and Lebanon reported an influx of more than 885,000 Iraqi refugees in 2007, according to UNHCR spokesman Peter Kessler. In contrast, only 110,000 Iraqis returned to their home country last year.
The latest U.N. figures show that the number of refugees from Africa continued a decade-long decline, dropping 6 percent last year, as more than 1.5 million returned to their homes in Congo, southern Sudan, Liberia and Burundi.
"For a number of years the number of refugees worldwide was decreasing due to the success of massive voluntary operations in Afghanistan, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Angola," High Commissioner for Refugees Antnio Guterres said in a telephone interview from London. "The number of refugees and internally displaced has started to rise again" during the past two years.
The refugee agency said that 3.1 million people were displaced within their countries this year, while about 2.1 million returned to their homes. Well over 10 million more displaced people -- including at least 3 million in Sudan -- are cut off from international assistance or are forced to rely exclusively on their own governments for help. Meanwhile, 4.6 million Palestinian refugees receive assistance from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency and are not included in UNHCR's data.
Pakistan, Iran, Syria and Jordan shoulder the heaviest burden, together playing host to nearly 5 million refugees, mostly Afghans and Iraqis. Countries in the Americas hosted fewer refugees than every other major world region; the United States hosted 280,000 refugees in 2007, while more than 550,000 Colombians sought refuge in neighboring countries.
Part of the change in the number of refugees and displaced people last year was driven by a new definition of the two groups. It now includes individuals who had never registered with the United Nations. The new formula boosts the number of Afghan refugees by about 1 million, to 3.1 million. At the same time, the U.N. refugee agency also stopped counting about 820,000 people as refugees -- including 560,000 in the United States -- who have been resettled outside their homeland.
The report also records a dramatic drop in the number of stateless individuals, who lack any citizenship, from 5.8 million in 2006 to 3 million last year. The vast majority of the change was due to Nepal's extension of citizenship to nearly 2 million ethnic minorities.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

107 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 18, 2016 Monday

Obama, Power Extol American Leadership and Values. Refugees Need Action.

LENGTH: 830  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 In his final State of the Union address President Obama focused on the importance of American leadership, both what it has accomplished and where it must improve. "When it comes to every important international issue, people of the world don't look to Beijing or Moscow to lead--they call us," he said. According to the President, American leadership in the 21st century is about "rallying the world behind causes that are right." 


 

 U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power echoed Obama's call at Seton Hall University in New Jersey. Power said that the world "constantly looks to the United States to lead" and "many believe little will happen if the United States does not act." The ambassador declared that the United States' "greatest strength is in our values" and that inflammatory political rhetoric will "compromise and undermine those values."

 

 Power specifically addressed an issue notably absent from Obama's speech--refugee resettlement. She reminded the crowd of the atrocities taking place in Syria, including gassings, barrel bombs, and violent extremists selling women in the street. She disparaged the idea that some politicians could "call to turn away people fleeing these horrors." Power pressed that those who say "keeping 'others' out is the only way to keep us secure misunderstand who we are and what makes us strong. Compromising our core values never makes the U.S. safer."

 

 Several Iraqi, Syrian, and Pakistani refugee families attended the event, and Power told their tragic stories of danger and escape, and how they eventually found safety and freedom in the United States. She asked the audience, "Does anyone of us want to live in a country where we turn away a family like this?" To widespread applause, she addressed the families: "America welcomes you, our families welcome your families ... These families are part of the fabric of American life."

 

 America needs leadership that embodies our core values. Obama and Power's attention to that fact is a welcomed call for progress. Yet the administration's eloquent rhetoric must do more than counterbalance the harmful speech against refugees. The administration must also act.

 

 Unfortunately, Obama's actions towards refugees, thus far, have not embodied the American leadership he and Ambassador Power extolled. Despite facing the largest refugee crisis since World War II, the United States has only agreed to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees--a mere fraction of the more than four million Syrian refugees forced to flee the horrors in their home countries. And Congress is considering legislation, the so-called SAFE Act, which would make it nearly impossible for the administration to even reach this modest goal.

 

 The United States has historically been the undisputed leader in resettling refugees in times of global crisis. Right now it's falling short. If Obama and Power's call for American leadership is to be realized in the global refugee crisis, the United States must welcome significantly more Syrian refugees.

 

 Another refugee crisis deserves U.S. attention at home. As Obama and Power spoke in support of American ideals and leadership, thousands of families across the country remain terrified of deportation raids targeting Central American families fleeing violence.

 

 When pressed, Power agreed that all Central American migrants should have a meaningful opportunity to have their case heard and receive protection if they are refugees. But she did not address how her call for sympathy for families fleeing violence in the Middle East could be squared with the administration's recent actions toward Central American families.

 

 Earlier this week over 100 House Democrats condemned the administration's move to deport refugee mothers and children from Central America. The lawmakers highlighted that these actions are not in line with American values. "You and your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by offering refuge to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We commend you for that," they wrote. "However, these same fundamental American values have not been applied in your Administration's policies towards Central American refugee mothers and children."

 

 Near the end of his State of the Union address Obama declared, "Our collective futures depend on your willingness to uphold your duties as a citizen... to stand up for others, especially the weak, especially the vulnerable, knowing that each of us is only here because somebody somewhere stood up for us."

 

 Refugees from Syria to Central America, with nowhere to turn, need us to stand up for them. That means safe, fair, and robust asylum procedures and resettlement commitments. That's what American ideals in action would look like.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

108 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

March 10, 2003 Monday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Africa's Lost Tribe Discovers American Way 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

DATELINE: KAKUMA, Kenya  

The engines rumbled and the red sand swirled as the cargo plane roared onto the dirt airstrip. One by one, the dazed and impoverished refugees climbed from the belly of the plane into this desolate wind-swept camp.
     They are members of Africa's lost tribe, the Somali Bantu, who were stolen from the shores of Mozambique, Malawi and Tanzania and carried on Arab slave ships to Somalia two centuries ago. They were enslaved and persecuted until Somalia's civil war scattered them to refugee camps in the 1990's. 
 Yet on this recent day, the Bantu people were rejoicing as they stepped from the plane into the blinding sun. They were the last members of the tribe to be transferred from a violent camp near the Somali border to this dusty place just south of Sudan. They knew their first trip in a flying machine was a harbinger of miracles to come. 
Over the next two years, nearly all of the Somali Bantu refugees in Kenya -- about 12,000 people -- are to be flown to the United States. This is one of the largest refugee groups to receive blanket permission for resettlement since the mid-1990's, State Department officials say.
The refugees will be interviewed by American immigration officials in this camp, which is less violent than the camp near Somalia. The interview process has been slowed by security concerns in the aftermath of Sept. 11. Despite the repeated delays, the preparations for the extraordinary journey are already under way.
Every morning, dozens of peasant farmers take their seats in classrooms in a simple one-story building with a metal roof. They study English, hold their first notebooks and pens, and struggle to learn about the place called America. It is an enormous task.
The Bantu, who were often denied access to education and jobs in Somalia, are mostly illiterate and almost completely untouched by modern life. They measure time by watching the sun rise and fall over their green fields and mud huts. 
As refugees, they have worked the soil, cooked, cleaned and labored in backbreaking construction jobs, filling about 90 percent of the unskilled jobs in the camp in Dadaab, Kenya, where most Bantu people lived until they were transferred here last year. But most have never turned on a light switch, flushed a toilet or held a lease.
So the students here study in a classroom equipped with all the trappings of modern American life, including a gleaming refrigerator, a sink, a toilet and a bathtub. They are learning about paper towels and toilet cleanser and peanut butter and ice trays, along with English and American culture.
Refugee officials here fear that the Bantu's battle to adjust to a high-tech world will only be complicated by American ambivalence about immigrants since the terrorist attacks in the United States. 
The Bantu are practicing Muslims. Women cover their hair with brightly colored scarves. Families pray five times a day. In Somalia, they were in a predominantly Muslim country often described as a breeding ground for terrorists.
The American government requires refugees from such hot spots to undergo a new series of security clearances before they can be resettled in the United States. The new system has delayed the arrival of thousands of refugees, leaving them to languish in camps where children often die of malnutrition.
But most people here are willing to do what it takes to live in a country that outlaws discrimination. While they wait, they learn about leases and the separation between church and state, and they practice their limited English.
About 700 Bantu have gone through this cultural orientation. By the end of September, State Department officials say, 1,500 are expected to be resettled in about 50 American cities and towns, including Boston; Charlotte, N.C.; San Diego; and Erie, Pa. 
In America, the refugees tell each other, the Bantu will be considered human beings, not slaves, for the first time.
"It's scary," said Haw Abass Aden, a peasant farmer still trembling as she stepped off her first flight through the clouds. She clung tightly to a kerosene lamp with one hand and her little girl with the other. But she regained her composure as she considered her future.
"We are coming here to be resettled in the United States," said Ms. Aden, 20, speaking through a translator. "There, we will find peace and freedom."
After centuries of suffering, they are praying that America will be the place where they will finally belong. The United Nations has been trying to find a home for the Bantu for more than a decade because it is painfully clear they cannot return to Somalia. 
In Somalia, the lighter-skinned majority rejected the Bantu, for their slave origins and dark skin and wide features. Even after they were freed from bondage, the Bantu were denied meaningful political representation and rights to land ownership. During the Somali civil war, they were disproportionately victims of rapes and killings.
The discrimination and violence continues in the barren camps today -- even here -- where the Bantu are often attacked and dismissed as Mushungulis, which means slave people.
But finding a new home for the Bantu refugees here has not been easy. First Tanzania and then Mozambique, the Bantu's ancestral homelands, agreed to take the tribe. Both impoverished countries ultimately reneged, saying they could not afford to resettle the group.
In 1999, the United States determined that the Somali Bantu tribe was a persecuted group eligible for resettlement. The number of African refugees approved for admission in the United States surged from 3,318 in 1990 to 20,084 a decade later as the cold war ended and American officials focused on assisting refugees beyond those fleeing Communist countries.
"I don't think Somalia is my country because we Somali Bantus have seen our people treated like donkeys there," said Fatuma Abdekadir, 20, who was waiting for her class to start. "I think my country is where I am going.
"There, there is peace. Nobody can treat you badly. Nobody can come into your house and beat you."
The refugees watch snippets of American life on videos in class, and they marvel at the images of supermarkets filled with peppers and tomatoes and of tall buildings that reach for the clouds. But they know little about racism, poverty, the bone-chilling cold or the cities that will be chosen for them by refugee resettlement agencies.
What they know is this flat, parched corner of Africa, a place of thorn trees and numbing hunger where water comes from wells when it comes at all -- a place of fierce heat and wind that whips the sand into biting and blinding storms. 
In the classes, the teachers try to prepare the Bantu for a modern world. Issack Adan carefully guides his students through the lessons, taking questions from older men with graying beards, teenage girls with ballpoint pens tucked into their head scarves and young mothers with babies tied to their backs.
The lesson of the day: a white flush toilet. "Come close, come close," Mr. Adan said as the women approached the strange object doubtfully. "Mothers, you sit on it, you don't stand on it."
The women nodded, although they seemed uncertain. Mr. Adan showed them how to flush the toilet and how to clean it. "You wash with this thing and you will have a good smell," he said.
"A very nice smell," the students agreed.
Then Abubakar Saidali, a 30-year-old student, looked closely at the odd contraption and asked, "But where does that water go?" For an answer, Mr. Adan took the refugees outside to show them the pipes that carry the sewage.
Back in the classroom, the students spent the next few hours learning about the refrigerator, ice cubes and strawberry jam. They watched eagerly as Mr. Adan washed dishes in a sink and admired the bathtub and shower. One woman demurred, however, when he invited her to step into the tub.
"It is so clean," she said shyly. "Can I really step in it?"
Some students grumbled that the American appliances seemed more complicated than their ordinary ways of living. Why worry about cleaning a toilet, some refugees said aloud, when the bushes never need to be cleaned?
But Mr. Saidali said he was thrilled to learn about modern toilets after years of relying on smelly pit latrines.
"This latrine is inside the house," marveled Mr. Saidali, a lean man in tattered sneakers. "It's better than what we are now using. It has a seat for sitting and the water goes down.
"Even this sink -- it's my first time," he said. "This sink is for washing. It cleans things very nicely." 
Even with the lessons, some Bantu are worried about how they will cope in America. They know that blacks and Muslims are minorities there. Will Americans be welcoming? Will they learn English quickly enough? Will they find jobs and housing and friends? Some officials here worry, too.
"These people are from rural areas," Mr. Adan said. "They don't know much about modern life."
But the refugees who arrived on the plane here said they were eager for the challenge.
Uncertain of what might be needed in the United States, they carried most of their precious possessions -- broken brooms, chipped mugs, metal plates -- as they boarded a rattling bus that roared deep into the camp as the sun sank beyond the horizon.
The refugees knew they would be sleeping on the ground again and going hungry as they have often done. But they also knew that this was only the first phase of an incredible journey. 
First stop, Kakuma. Next stop, America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Somali Bantu refugees at a camp in Kakuma, Kenya, take classes to prepare for new lives in the United States. (Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Somali Bantu men, left, were taught how to read signs on public toilets during an orientation class at the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya. In another class, right, Somali Bantu women learned how to use and clean a sink.; A Somali Bantu child was weighed upon arrival at the Kakuma camp. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A7) Map of Kenya highlighting Kakuma: Somali Bantu refugees in Kakuma are learning about American life. (pg. A7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

120 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

May 24, 2002 Friday  
City Edition

Nebraska to get fewer refugees

BYLINE: BOB REEVES, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words

Nationwide slowdown: Began Sept. 11
  Far fewer refugees could arrive in Nebraska this year than last because of a nationwide slowdown that started Sept. 11.
  Since the current federal fiscal year began Oct. 1, only about 11,000 refugees have come into the United States. And just 62 of those have been resettled in Nebraska. 
  Refugee agencies predict that by the time the fiscal year ends Sept. 30, the number of refugees entering the United States this year will fall far short of the 70,000 authorized by President Bush Nov. 21.
  Nebraska could receive as few as 200 new refugees - compared with 657 last year - unless there's a dramatic increase in the summer months, said Maria Diaz, state refugee resettlement coordinator with the state Health and Human Services System.
  Over the past decade, between 600 and 700 new refugees have arrived in Nebraska each year, she said.
  "It's anybody's guess what will happen this year," she said.
  Nationally, agencies that resettle refugees are predicting 40,000 this year, only about two-thirds the number authorized by the president.
  A major factor in the slowdown is increased security after Sept. 11, which forced immigration officials out of foreign countries for safety reasons. About 22,000 refugees were approved to come to America before Sept. 11, but had to be rescreened. However, refugee advocates say delays in implementing new procedures and lack of personnel in some regions have slowed the process.
  The Rev. Don Duy, director of community services for Lutheran Family Services of Nebraska's Heartland Refugee Resettlement program, called the problem a "little-known crisis that Americans who care about our reputation as a just and compassionate society deserve to know about."
  Since Oct. 1, only 41 individuals - 27 in Lincoln and 14 in Omaha - have been resettled through the Heartland program. Another 19 were resettled in Lincoln as family reunification cases through Catholic Social Services, which cut its staff this year. In addition, two refugees were resettled in Omaha by the Jewish Family Center.
  The 46 individuals resettled in Lincoln included three families from Bosnia, two families from Iraq, two families from Russia, one family from Vietnam and one person from Sudan.
  The flow of refugees from Africa has been severely restricted since Sept. 11, Duy said.
  Duy said he is concerned that some of the most vulnerable people, who escaped their homelands under threat of violence, are being kept in limbo because of U.S. concerns about terrorism.
  "To invoke new measures in vetoing refugees for U.S. admission is understandable, although refugees are already among the most screened of any immigrant group coming to the U.S.," Duy said. "However, it is unjust to prolong the suffering of refugees whose experience with terror is profound. By extending their stay in the squalid and often unsafe conditions of refugee camps, where many have already languished for several years, is to compound their anguish."
  He noted that families and churches are ready in Nebraska, and across the country, to sponsor new refugees and help in their resettlement.
  Refugee advocacy organizations nationally say that if this year's goal of 70,000 can't be met, the shortfall should be added to the 75,000 the Department of State had tentatively planned to announce for next year.
  Up until the mid-1990s, the United States admitted 100,000 to 150,000 refugees each year, and could return to that level, according to a report by Immigration and Refugee Services of America.
  Worldwide, there are an estimated 15million refugees, most of whom can't return to their own countries because of fear of persecution, torture or possible death, Duy said. He urged the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, the State Department and Department of Justice to work together to speed the flow of refugees.
  "The protection of our nation from external threats should not become a pretext" for turning away people who themselves are seeking asylum from terror, he said.
  Reach Bob Reeves at 473-7212 or at breeves@journalstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2002 Lincoln Journal Star,
All Rights Reserved

129 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

January 4, 2010 Monday  
Suburban Edition

Somalis seeking asylum take back-door route to U.S.; 
Suspension of refugee program has put them on Latin American path

BYLINE: Amy Taxin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: LANCASTER, CALIF.

The asylum seeker from Somalia hung his head as an immigration judge grilled him about his treacherous journey from the Horn of Africa. By air, sea and land he finally made it to Mexico, and then a taxi delivered him into the arms of U.S. border agents at San Diego.
Islamic militants had killed his brother, Mohamed Ahmed Kheire testified, and majority clan members had beaten his sister. He had to flee Mogadishu to live. 
The voice of the judge, beamed by videoconference from Seattle, crackled loudly over a speaker in the mostly empty courtroom near the detention yard in the desert north of Los Angeles. He wanted to know why Kheire had no family testimony to corroborate his asylum claim.
Kheire, 31, said he didn't have access to e-mail in detention and didn't think to ask while writing to family on his perilous trek.
It seemed like the end of Kheire's dream as he waited for the judge's ruling. He clasped his hands, his plastic jail bracelet dangling from his wrist, and looked up at the ceiling, murmuring words of prayer.
Kheire is one of hundreds of Somalis in the past two years to have staked everything on a wild asylum gamble by following immigration routes to the United States traditionally traveled by Latinos.
With the suspension of a U.S. refugee program and stepped-up security in the Gulf of Aden and along Mediterranean smuggling routes, more overseas migrants from Somalia are pursuing asylum through what one expert calls the "back door."
"The U.S. has closed most of the doors for Somalis to come in through the refugee program, so they've found alternative ways to get in," said Mark Hetfield, senior vice president for policy and programs at the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. "This is their new route." About 1,500 people from around the world showed up in U.S. airports and on the borders seeking asylum during the 2009 fiscal year, according to statistics from U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
Somalis were the biggest group to make the journey, with most arriving in San Diego. More than 240 Somalis arrived during that period -- more than twice as many as the year before.
Most Somalis have reached the United States -- there are about 87,000 here -- through U.S.-sponsored refugee-resettlement programs. But the State Department suspended a family-reunification program for refugees in 2008 over fraud concerns. The number of Somalis admitted by refugee programs dwindled to about 4,000 last year.
Those now traveling through Latin America are taking a path well worn by asylum seekers from other countries. Immigration lawyers say they have worked with clients from Ethiopia and Iraq who also reached the United States through Mexico.
"To get a flight from Africa to Europe is very hard. The easiest place to go is America," said Yahya Idardon, an asylum seeker who fled Somalia last year after his father and brother were killed. "Africa to Latin America is easy. . . . When you are going to Latin America, no one is concerned about you, no one is asking, so it is easy to go there and cross all these countries." Once reaching the U.S. border in San Diego, Somalis are frisked, fingerprinted and screened by an asylum officer to gauge whether they have a credible fear of returning home.
They are then shuttled to an immigration detention center until their cases go to court.
About 80 Somalis are being held in Lancaster, a detention center 50 miles north of Los Angeles. Dozens more have been held in San Diego and the remote border town of El Centro, immigration lawyers said.
On Jan. 4, the government plans to start releasing many asylum seekers while they wait for their immigration cases to be heard. It is unclear how many Somalis will be let out; they must prove their identity and many don't have documents. And still others say they have nowhere to go even if they were freed, their attorneys said.
Compared with asylum seekers from other countries, Somalis have been more likely to win their cases, according to immigration court statistics.
But in the courtroom in Lancaster, Kheire spent the last moments of his hearing worried that the judge would send him back to Mogadishu to face the threat of death -- even after he had survived such a harrowing journey.
The attorneys for Kheire and the government sat quietly in the courtroom, listening to the judge read the ruling as Kheire prayed.
A Somali interpreter whispered urgently into Kheire's ear. He broke into a hesitant smile. He would be allowed to stay.
Kheire left the courtroom in his black, laceless sneakers and jail jumpsuit, escorted by sheriff's officials. Later that night, he was dropped off by authorities at a nearby train station. He had $5 in his pocket.
"They said, 'This is America. Welcome to the United States of America,' " Kheire said.
 -- Associated Press 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Damian Dovarganes/associated Press; Mohamed Ahmed Kheire, right, consults with Esperanza Immigrant Rights Project detention lawyer James Lyall in Los Angeles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

130 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

May 4, 2018 Friday

What is our moral obligation to our refugees?

BYLINE: Mary Doetsch For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 696 words

By Mary Doetsch
In reply to the recent Deseret News article from April 26, "Does America have a moral obligation to resettle refugee?" I pose a question of my own: Does the U.S. government have a moral obligation to ensure the integrity of its refugee resettlement program? Unlike the unconvincing responses in the original article, the answer to the latter question is an unequivocal "yes."
Since the beginning of modern refugee resettlement, the United States has done more than its fair share, leading the world in refugee assistance and annually resettling more than all other countries combined. Since 1975, more than 3 million refugees have been permanently resettled in the United States. Given this extensive involvement, does not the so-called "moral obligation" extend to United States citizens and taxpayers to ensure the program is free from fraud, and that the individuals who are allowed into the country via the United States Refugee Admissions Program actually meet the definition of a refugee? 
For decades, rampant fraud has permeated the admissions program, yet little heed has been paid to the abuse. As a former refugee coordinator who served throughout the Middle East, Africa, Russia and Cuba, I saw firsthand the flagrant abuses and scams that infect the refugee program. I witnessed widespread exploitation and misuse ranging from identity fraud to marriage and family relation scams. It even extended to private individuals profiting from their involvement in the United States Refugee Admissions Program to distortion of the actual refugee definition to ensure greater numbers of people who are simply migrants are admitted as refugees.
As early as the 1990s, fraudulent refugee claims were commonplace in the still-operating United States refugee program in Cuba and among the tens of thousands of Somalis who entered the United States in the early 2000s under false identities. Especially disturbing is the fact that in the case of the Somali fraud, none of the individuals have ever been prosecuted or deported, despite violating federal law and scamming the refugee program. Of note, Somalia is one the five countries named in the president's travel ban, which seeks to bar entry into the United States of nationals from countries that pose a threat to national security.
Remarkably, this type of systemic fraud in the refugee admissions program has been regularly overlooked or willfully ignored. During my own time working in this program, I watched the program continue to expand unchecked, seemingly without concern for whether it served the best interests of its own citizens or the country.
The current United States Citizenship and Immigration Services investigation into Burmese refugees who entered the United States using false identities is just another recent example of the program's rampant fraud. In this case, as many as 1,700 individuals may have either falsified their own data or whose personal information was used by someone else to gain fraudulent entry into the country.
I'm not opposed to refugees. In fact, I became a refugee coordinator because I wanted to help and support persecuted persons in legitimate need of international protection. However, the pervasive fraud I saw during my eight years in the field was alarming. Undoubtedly, many individuals who work within the refugee field have humanitarian aims; however, refugee resettlement has morphed into an industry - a money-making, numbers-driven, financially motivated business, growing blindly at the expense of the American public and our national security. The contractors, who are paid by the federal government to implement the program, have a vested interest in processing ever-larger numbers of applicants, since they make money on every refugee settled.
Until the federal government can guarantee that the United States Refugee Admissions Program has been reformed and the widespread fraud eliminated, the "morality" question of resettling refugees should be moot.
Mary Doetsch, a recently retired 25-year veteran of the U.S. State Department, has served as a refugee coordinator for almost eight years throughout the Middle East, Africa, Russia and Cuba.
comment

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

132 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Bismarck Tribune

May 2, 2009 Saturday

New book says FDR tried to save Jewish refugees

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 140 words

NEW YORK (AP) - A new book disputes widely held assumptions that President Franklin D. Roosevelt was insensitive to the plight of European Jews under the Nazis, and instead concludes that he tried to arrange resettlement for thousands of refugees in the late 1930s, only to be thwarted by his own State Department. 
The book, "Refugees and Rescue," claims FDR developed plans in 1938 for the United States to fill its immigration quota with 27,000 Jews from Germany and Austria and to send others to British-held Palestine and friendly nations in Africa and Latin America.
"Most of the initiatives to resettle refugees in underdeveloped areas proved impossible, met substantial resistance abroad, or developed very slowly partly because of resistance by the Department of State," the Center for Jewish History says in a statement about the book.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
All Rights Reserved

133 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 16, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

TURMOIL IN CENTRAL AFRICA: THE RESPONSE;
As Thousands of Refugees Leave Camps in Zaire, U.S. Reassesses the Need for Military Force

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

With hundreds of thousands of Rwandans leaving refugee camps in Zaire for home, the United States has begun to reassess the need for a military force, led by Canada, to rescue the refugees and open the way for delivery of relief aid, senior Pentagon officials said today.
Earlier, President Clinton reiterated American willingness to take part in the force, should one remain necessary, and said contingency planning was proceeding. 
 But a senior Pentagon official later said that "because of the huge departure of people from the camps, everyone has to reassess the situation."
"No final decisions have been taken and no deployment orders have been signed," the official said, adding that the situation was being "continually reassessed."
Officials in France and at the United Nations, as well as leaders of many international aid organizations, insisted that a military force would still be needed to insure that relief aid reaches the refugees. But the Rwandan Government countered that international intervention was no longer required to protect the refugees, who are primarily Rwandan Hutu, or separate them from the Hutu-led militia in Zaire, which had, in effect, held them hostage.
With the situation in Central Africa still unclear, the United Nations Security Council voted unanimously this evening to authorize the force through March 31, the first step in clearing the way for relief workers to begin aiding and feeding the estimated 1 million refugees. The Americans had insisted on a four-month limit, though the mission could be ended earlier if circumstances warranted.
The resolution, sponsored by 30 countries, gives troops "all necessary means" to defend themselves. But the hope is that the force will not be required, and the Canadians say they have no intention of trying to disarm militia forces.
Without the force, "people will continue to die in Zaire in appalling numbers," said Robert Fowler, Canada's representative at the United Nations. Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada will command the force, for which at least 4,000 American troops have been promised. Mr. Fowler said today that more than 10,000 troops had been pledged by a growing list of nations, including several from Africa.
American participation in an international force is considered indispensable, but Washington has been highly skeptical from the beginning about the goals, funding, command and duration of the effort.
At a news conference before leaving for Hawaii on the first leg of a trip to Asia, Mr. Clinton called the surge of Hutu refugees from the camps "very good preliminary news."
One of the considerations in weighing international intervention has been how to separate noncombatant refugees from the Hutu militia that controlled them in the camps.
While the Rwandan Government said today that the sudden change made an international force unnecessary, Mr. Clinton said it was still too early to make that judgment.
"I think we have to be prepared for the prospect that we will still have to have some presence there," he said. "The world's most powerful nation must not turn its back on so many desperate people and innocent children who are now at risk."
The French Government said in a statement that it believed that an international force was still required to help with the logistics of a rescue operation. At the United Nations, Sylvana Foa, the spokeswoman for Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, said that United Nations officials also believed the force remained necessary, especially for logistical support. If the troops are not needed for their full four-month mandate, diplomats said, they could return early.
"Do we still need the multinational force? Yes we do," Ms. Foa said. "The situation in the region is very, very volatile. When you have hundreds of thousands of people on the move, you need the kind of logistics help only the military can provide. The mandate of this force is to save lives. There are lots of people out there in the banana plantations, in the jungles, in the mountains. They're cold, they're hungry and we need to reach them."
Officials of international aid organizations also defended the necessity of a military intervention. They emphasized that while the refugee movement is welcome, only the healthiest refugees would be on the roads. The larger and more fundamental questions of relations between Rwanda and a crumbling Zaire, between Rwanda and Burundi, and between Hutu and Tutsi in general, remain unresolved. The Hutu militia, which fled deeper into Zaire, would not disappear as a problem, the officials said.
Lionel Rosenblatt, president of Refugees International, said, "Those who are on the roads are in the best shape, and we don't know the toll of the dead and dying." He said it was vital to continue with the deployment of the international force for its original relief purpose, which should now be less dangerous than before.
At the International Rescue Committee, Gerald Martone, director of emergency response, said that his organization has been able to confirm only that 60,000 to 70,000 refugees have actually crossed into Rwanda, while several hundred thousand remain in the bush along the border, and hundreds of thousands more are scattered farther into Zaire.
Many of them appear to be trying to reach Goma, in Zaire, where there is some food and water, and it is not clear they intend to voluntarily return to Rwanda, as the United States hopes. Mr. Martone said his organization's staff in the field believe that the news of an international force may have been a factor propelling the refugees home.
"It is important time not to pull the plug on what may have been a critical factor. The Council resolution was the right thing to do.
Iain Guest, an African specialist and senior fellow at the U.S. Institute of Peace, said: "We may just be saved on this one by the skin of our teeth. It seems to spare us the ultimate nightmare: to go into the Mgunga camp to try to feed refugees and separate them from the armed militia, and have neither the force or the mandate with which to do it."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

134 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Christian Science Monitor

February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Trekking through snow and cold, Muslim refugees take their chances in Canada; 
A small but growing number of Muslim refugees are fleeing Trump's America, braving through snowstorms to cross the border to Canada.

BYLINE: Mengqi Sun Staff

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 580 words

Disheartened by the Trump administration's attempts to halt the flow of refugees into the United States, a small but growing number of Muslim asylum seekers are fleeing President Trump's America, trekking through, through frigid temperatures and waist-deep snow to cross the border to Canada.
As 1,100 refugees arrived in the United States last week with the lifting of the Trump administration's travel ban by the federal courts, some 25 refugees decided to forgo their chances of being granted asylum in the United States and instead made their way to Emerson, Manitoba, despite fierce snowstorms. 
"Sometimes we were crawling," Hussein Ahmed, a Somali refugee told CNN. "It was terrible.... I thought I would never survive such a field of ice."
According to local officials, the number of refugees crossing into Emerson has drastically increased from 50 to 60 each year to 40 in the past two weekends. The numbers for the other areas also grew, as Quebec saw the number of illegal crossings tripled to 1,280 this current fiscal year while British Columbia had 652 cases last year.
Even before Mr. Trump had taken office, some asylum seekers who had thought they would find their second chance in the United States began shifting their sights further north to Canada.
When Ghanaian national Razak Iyal first began walking from North Dakota to Manitoba in December, he had no idea the potential risks of embarking on such a journey by foot in winter. He and his travel companion, another Ghanaian refugee whom he met along the way, both lost their fingers to frostbite along the way. But they found a community ready to welcome them with open arms, at least temporarily.
"The president of the Ghana community [in Winnipeg], she has been coming every day, every day.... She brings us food, everything we need," Mr. Iyal told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. "She's been helping us, and most of the Canadian people, too ... when they see us they have been good to us. Now I think we are part of the Canadian people."
Though Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that Canada would accept refugees turned away by the United States, there is no guarantee that Iyal will be allowed to stay in Canada permanently after crossing the border illegally. His immigration hearing is scheduled for March 27.
As a growing number of people traveled at "one of the coldest seasons," border patrol officials in North Dakota have contacted consulates from some African countries, asking them to spread information about the hazards of winter in Minnesota and North Dakota.
"Family groups with small children that, if someone hadn't gone out and picked them up, they'd have frozen to death," said Aaron Heitke, border patrol sector commander at Grand Forks, a popular crossing point for immigrants as it is 80 miles from Emerson of Manitoba, told the Associated Press.
Facing the new humanitarian issue, Rita Chahal, executive director of Manitoba Interfaith Immigration Council, said it is important to help these immigrants "at their moment of desperation," by welcoming them and distributing blankets at the border when the center gets calls about new groups.
"People are running for their lives. They are running for safety, running for their families," Ms. Chahal told CNN. "When somebody comes into a new country, they don't know the language, often, they don't know their way around, so it's really important to help them navigate."
This report includes material from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Christian Science Publishing Society
All Rights Reserved

136 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

November 10, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.N. report: Refugees struggle amid racism

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 336 words

 More than 18 million refugees struggled to survive outside their homelands last year amid a growing tide of racism, the United Nations reported Tuesday.
In the first report of its kind, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said the number of refugees is nearly eight times worse than two decades ago, when the U.N. recorded 2.5 million refugees.
The United States was home to 473,000 refugees, the report said. 
"Refugees are the symptoms of the ills of an age," the U.N. report said. "The euphoria that greeted the end of the Cold War has given way to a sober reassessment of how refugees are affected by the new geopolitical realities."
Beleaguered governments, the report said, "are closing their doors in panic, while racist and xenophobic attitudes are on the rise. . . . Racism, and the violence that goes with it, all too often haunt refugees even after they have found asylum."
Germany is often cited in reports because of the high-profile situation - neo-Nazis and skinheads attacking refugees from the former Yugoslavia, Turkey and elsewhere.
But, the report notes, "the problem of xenophobia is widespread throughout Europe and elsewhere" - from Scandinavia to Switzerland, from France to Japan.
Last year, an average of 10,000 men, women and children became refugees every day, the 191-page report said.
In addition, 24 million people are displaced within their homelands' borders, the report said.
This dramatic rise in the number of people seeking asylum, the report warned, "has created a backlash against refugee and economic migrant alike."
UNHCR commissioner Sadako Ogata said the "traditional system for protecting refugees has come dangerously close to breaking down . . . and has seriously endangered the time-honored tradition of granting asylum to those in genuine need of protection."
The report said the refugee count breaks down as:
North America, excluding USA: 600,000.
Africa: 5.4 million.
Asia: 7.2 million.
Europe: 4.3 million.
Latin America: 883,300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.

137 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

April 12, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION
Correction Appended

FOR THIS FAMILY, AMERICA AT LAST
AMARA KAMARA'S NINE SIBLINGS ENDURED YEARS OF WAITING IN AFRICAN REFUGEE CAMPS FOR THE DAY THEY COULD JOIN THEIR BROTHER IN THE TWIN CITIES AND START A NEW LIFE.

BYLINE: TODD NELSON and BILL GARDNERPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 644 words

With hugs and laughter, Amara Kamara welcomed his nine brothers and sisters Friday night to the United States and to a new life far from the refugee camps of war-torn Africa where they had lived for years in hopes of reuniting with their brother.
"This is great," a beaming Kamara said as he greeted each family member with a bear hug as they walked off a plane and into a lobby at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.
The other family members had left Guinea the previous day, stopping in France and New Jersey before arriving in the Twin Cities. 
Kamara, a 35-year-old St. Paul resident, had worked for years to bring his family to this country, but red tape and delays thwarted him. The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, came less than a week before the family was to depart for the United States and caused another delay of 18 months.
But at the airport, the joy of a family reunited could be seen in their faces.
"We are very, very happy to be together," said Yaya, one of Kamara's brothers. "May God bless the United States of America."
"I'm overwhelmed," Kamara said.
The Hennepin Avenue United Methodist Church and the Cathedral Church of St. Mark are sponsoring Kamara's family, who will live in a guest house until they can find jobs and become adjusted to their new country.
"Mostly they want to be independent," Kamara said. "This is the only place that can give them a life."
Kamara married an American Peace Corps volunteer he met in Guinea and came to the United States in 1996. He left behind his siblings in Guinea's capital city of Conakry and hadn't seen them since.
The family had fled to Guinea when civil war broke out in their homeland of Liberia in 1989.
Kamara, a personal trainer, had been sending money back to his family to help them live until they could reach the United States. His wife, Connie, is an international health adviser for the American Refugee Committee
After years of delays and red tape, Kamara's brothers and sisters finally had been cleared for resettlement in the United States. They were going to arrive on Sept. 17, 2001.
Then, as the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks unfolded on his TV, he knew the flight was off. Although no refugee resettled in the United States has been linked to terrorism, the government temporarily froze refugee arrivals, leaving in limbo Kamara's siblings and tens of thousands of other refugees from around the world.
Nationwide, resettlement has resumed, but with greater security and at a much slower pace. Arrivals this year may reach 17,000. Last year's total of 27,000 was a steep decline from the 69,000 of the year before.
Desperate for help, Kamara and his wife went to the St. Paul office of the newly sworn-in Sen. Norm Coleman, whose staff members helped hasten the reunion.
"When they say they want to do something, they really do it," Kamara said.
On Monday, however, Kamara's brothers and sisters called him, crying because they had just been told the flight had been canceled. Assuming they were leaving this time, the brothers and sisters had let go of their apartment and given away any possessions they could not carry on the plane.
His hopes dashed again, Kamara was in tears, too. "My heart was really broken," Kamara said. "We didn't know what was going to happen."
But the Coleman staff refused to take no for an answer and managed to get the family out of Africa within days.
It will be a strange new life for the family, Kamara knows.
"They will have to learn how to open a bank account and take care of their money," he said. "They don't know what it's like to get money."
"What's going to be overwhelming for them is the amount of things we have," Connie Kamara said. "I think going to the grocery store is going to freak them out -- deciding between different kinds of rice or different kinds of toothpaste.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2003


CORRECTION: Local: The daughter of Amara Kamara was misidentified in a photo caption on Page 1B on Saturday. She is Manya, 19 months.
Sunday, April 13, 2003

GRAPHIC: Photo: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS

Amara Kamara welcomes his sister Fanta, one of nine Liberian siblings who arrived Friday night at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. His daughter, Maya, 18 months, is at left.

Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press 
All Rights Reserved

140 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary  2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 767 words

Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA. 
The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.
In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from the state-sponsored church.
Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the West Indies.
Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.
Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S. skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1 percent.
The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed, at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.
As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another 7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.
In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5 percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle East-North Africa region.
The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.
In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the administration by the United Nations.
According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to agree to provide the funds.
The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current regional conflict.
Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic in 1979.
Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.
In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle East.
Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for 15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

141 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary  2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 767 words

Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA. 
The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.
In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from the state-sponsored church.
Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the West Indies.
Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.
Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S. skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1 percent.
The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed, at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.
As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another 7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.
In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5 percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle East-North Africa region.
The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.
In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the administration by the United Nations.
According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to agree to provide the funds.
The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current regional conflict.
Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic in 1979.
Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.
In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle East.
Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for 15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

142 of 996 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary  2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words

Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA. 
The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.
In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from the state-sponsored church.
Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the West Indies.
Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.
Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S. skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1 percent.
The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed, at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.
As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another 7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.
In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5 percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle East-North Africa region.
The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.
In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the administration by the United Nations.
According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to agree to provide the funds.
The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current regional conflict.
Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic in 1979.
Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.
In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle East.
Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for 15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

143 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 18, 1985, Wednesday, Final Edition

Shultz Warns of Cuts In Refugee Admissions

BYLINE: By I. Rajeswary, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: First Section; A4

LENGTH: 396 words

Secretary of State George P. Shultz warned Congress yesterday that the United States would have to drastically reduce refugee admissions for the next fiscal year if Congress sharply reduces the administration's $338 million budget request.
Shultz also said he would establish a new panel to review refugee operations in Southeast Asia. Department officials said they believed it was time for a fresh look at the issue. Shultz is expected to announce details of the panel soon. 
Testifying at the annual refugee consultation meeting before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee, Shultz said the president proposes a ceiling of 70,000 refugee admissions to the United States for the coming fiscal year, including a ceiling of 3,000 for Latin America and the Caribbean "in the hope that Cuba will end its suspension of the U.S.-Cuban Migration Agreement of last December."
He said there will be a separate ceiling for admissions under the United Nations High Commission for Refugees Orderly Departure Program from Vietnam (ODP). The purpose is to reassure ASEAN countries (members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations) that an expanding ODP will not mean a decrease in resettlement from first asylum camps and to send a clear signal to Hanoi that the U.S. is prepared "to make good on its offer to accept a large number of Amerasians and reeducation camp prisoners."
Since 1975, the United States has taken 125,000 Cambodian refugees. Shultz said this year the Vietnamese released almost 4,000 Amerasian children and family members compared with 2,200 last year. "The Vietnamese failed to reach our goal of 5,000 for the first year," he said.
Shultz said the United States will be meeting with Vietnamese representatives in Geneva next month. "We will be seeking agreement by Vietnam to improvements in the operation of the ODP which will enable more Amerasian children and other persons of special humanitarian concern to the United States to leave Vietnam, via this safe and humane route."
Robert Funseth, the department's senior deputy assistant secretary will once again lead the U.S. delegation this year.
Responding to questions, Shultz said the Reagan administration definitely plans to go ahead with a ban on the import of South Africa's krugerrand gold coins. He said the U.S. was in the process of "notification and consultation" prior to the ban.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, George P. Shultz . . . testifies against budget cut.

Copyright 1985 The Washington Post

144 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The Washington Post

June 10, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. to Admit Cuban Defectors Jailed in Africa; Doctors Get Temporary Refugee Status

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 726 words

 
Two Cuban doctors who were imprisoned in Zimbabwe last week after they tried to defect have been granted refugee status in the United States and are expected to arrive here as early as Monday, U.S. officials said yesterday.
Officials said Leonel Cordova Rodriguez, 31, and Noris Pena Martinez, 25, were interviewed in Harare, the Zimbabwean capital, yesterday by an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer from the agency's regional office in Nairobi. "We have given them temporary refugee status," said an official in Washington.
Once they arrive in the United States, the doctors will be covered under the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, which allows any Cuban national here to apply for permanent residence. 
The U.S. decision to admit the Cubans was an unexpected development at the end of a harrowing week in which the Zimbabwe government, allegedly acting with Cuban diplomats, attempted to secretly deport the two doctors back to Havana after they asked for political asylum. When airline officials in neighboring South Africa refused to allow them aboard a plane to Paris en route to Havana, they were brought back to Harare and imprisoned for five days before Zimbabwe responded to U.N. inquiries about their whereabouts.
Once their story became public this week, some members of Congress accused the State Department and INS of ignoring requests for U.S. asylum the doctors made before their disappearance. "I was very disappointed to hear that the United States Embassy in Harare . . . denied them an interview with U.S. officials," Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.)wrote U.S. Ambassador Tom McDonald. "Their return to communist Cuba would subject their lives to grave danger."
U.S. officials denied that the two had been turned away. The INS, said spokeswoman Maria Cardona, had "gone by the book" in its dealings with them.
According to information provided by the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Canadian and U.S. officials, and the doctors themselves, their path to refugee status was a convoluted one.
When they arrived in Harare in April as part of a Cuban aid team, the two had already decided to defect, they later told a Harare newspaper. Their destination of choice, they said, was Canada, and, on May 24, they visited the Canadian High Commission, or embassy, in Harare. Canadian officials told them that under international refugee conventions, they would first have to be interviewed by Zimbabwean refugee officials and the UNHCR in Harare. Like the United States, Canada has no Harare-based asylum officials, but they were told one could be brought from Nairobi to interview them once they had been cleared by the U.N. process.
At the local UNHCR office, they were given an appointment for a June 2 interview. Zimbabwean refugee officials also scheduled an interview with them for June 2.
The doctors then visited the U.S. Embassy, apparently hedging their bets on Canada. According to U.S. officials, they were told to complete the U.N. processing, after which they would be interviewed by a Nairobi-based U.S. official.
Although Zimbabwean officials had sent the doctors to a secure refugee holding facility to await their interviews, the two decided they would rather stay in a private residence. Just before dawn on June 2, according to the doctors' subsequent account, armed Zimbabwean police took them from that residence to an immigration office. In the presence of Cuban diplomats, they said, they were asked to sign unspecified documents. They refused.
They were then placed under guard on a flight to Johannesburg. There, as Zimbabwean security officers attempted to force them aboard the flight to Paris, they slipped a note to an Air France official saying they were being kidnapped. Air France refused to allow them to board, and the Zimbabweans took them back to a prison in Harare.
On Wednesday, Zimbabwe acknowledged their whereabouts and they were visited by a U.N. official; on Thursday, they met with Zimbabwean refugee officials. Yesterday, they were approved as legitimate international refugees and interviewed by a U.S. official.
Cuba and Zimbabwe, which have a close relationship, have denied any untoward actions in the case.
Cordova has said he has a wife and three children in Cuba; Pena is a single woman who has relatives in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

145 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 19, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.N. REFUGEE CHIEF GETS A NEW TERM

BYLINE: By BERNARD D. NOSSITER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., Dec. 18

Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar has settled a backstage political struggle here over the key post of High Commissioner for Refugees.
He has chosen Poul Hartling, a longtime Danish politician, to succeed himself. But Mr. Hartling's term will be limited to three years instead of the usual five. Mr. Hartling, whose agency cares for about 10 million refugees from war and political oppression around the world, performed with enough distinction that his organization received a Nobel Peace Prize last year. But two other competitors jumped into the battle for his $96,000-a-year post and groups of ambassadors worked strenuously on their behalf, as others did for Mr. Hartling. 
So Mr. Perez de Cuellar decided to soothe the feelings of the losers and award Mr. Hartling a shortened second term. Mr. Hartling has been Denmark's Prime Minister and led its middle-of-the-road Liberal Party and is a Lutheran clergyman. The General Assembly is still to approve Mr. Perez de Cuellar's decision, but that is regarded as automatic. The fact that Mr. Hartling nearly quadrupled contributions to his agency in his first five-year term is seen as a powerful political point.
 
The 2 Competitors
His strongest competitor was Dafallah el-Hag Yousif Medani, Minister for Religious Affairs in the Sudan, home to 600,000 refugees from Ethiopia. The many African countries here are a strong lobby, and their envoys worked in corridors and at lunches and parties for Mr. Medani. They contended that Mr. Hartling had spent too much time and money on the homeless from Afghanistan and Southeast Asia while neglecting Africa's four million refugees.
In addition, the Netherlands promoted Max van der Stoel, twice a Foreign Minister and an advocate of human rights. He is 10 years younger than the 68-year-old Mr. Hartling, and polite suggestions were made that the Dane should give way to a more youthful competitor. Mr. Medani is 48.
Apart from the Scandinavian nations, the United States backed Mr.  Hartling. Washington puts up $120.4 million of the High Commissioner's $430 million budget, more than six times as much as the next largest contributor, Japan.
At first, Mr. Perez de Cuellar proposed that Mr. Hartling stay on for just two more years. ''That's insulting,'' Mr. Hartling said in a recent interview. ''To make me a lame duck for two years, I wouldn't like that.''
But three years apparently was enough for Mr. Hartling to fly again.
 
A Reason for Hope
Mr. Hartling wants to continue, he said, ''to help as many refugees as we've helped up to now.'' ''The encouraging thing,'' he said, ''is that the refugees we are helping now are not those we had in the past.'' In his agency's 31 years, he calculated, 25 million refugees have returned to the countries they fled or have resettled in new lands.
He dismissed the assertion that he was too old for the job. ''I feel fit,'' he said. ''What is age? That's different for different people.'' His post, presiding over a relatively slim bureaucracy of about 1,000, is ''demanding,'' he said, but it is also ''rewarding.''
He said the complaint that he had neglected Africa was untrue. In his five years, he said, he has spent $650 million there on refugees, seven times the $90 million spent on Africa in the preceding five years.
Moreover, he opened a drive last year for emergency money to aid victims of Africa's turmoil. Although the campaign fell far below his goal of $1.2 billion, it did bring in an extra $225 million.
His biggest headache is the 2.7 million Afghans who have moved across the border into Pakistan to escape the war between Soviet troops and insurgents fighting to overthrow the Soviet-installed Government in Kabul. ''We have put them in tented villages,'' Mr.  Hartling said, ''but few are self-supporting. The majority can't live except on what we give them.''
The High Commissioner warmly praised the poor nations who take in the refugees.
 
Problems in Central America
Some of his touchiest political problems involve Central America.  About 35,000 Salvadorans have fled to Honduras to escape their Government, and the guerrillas it is fighting; similarly, 6,000 Nicaraguans have gone to Honduras, leaving the Sandinist Government.  Sometimes the Honduran authorities, sympathetic to the Salvadoran Government, have forced refugees back across the border.
Mr. Hartling said that Honduran officials had ''assured us it won't happen again.'' As an attempt to provide insurance, he has assigned four unarmed agency officials to patrol the Honduran-Salvadoran border on horseback. ''Their presence can help stop such incidents,''he said.
Mr. Hartling has even locked horns with the United States immigration authorities over refugees from El Salvador and Haiti.  Since Washington supports both Governments, American officials have tended to regard these people as economic migrants seeking jobs rather than political refugees who fear persecution at home.
The High Commissioner has urged the United States to observe international convention and examine each case on its merits. ''I am satisfied it is the intention of the Administration to follow the rules,'' he said. ''Perhaps there were some incidents in the beginning, but I think it is improving very much.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company

146 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 10, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.N. REFUGEE AGENCY WARNS OF MONEY CRISIS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 9

The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, citing a severe financial crisis, will appeal for urgent contributions from donor nations at a pledging conference to be held in New York next Friday.
The 35-year-old agency, which says it has assisted about 25 million people, has said it is in its worst financial crisis ever, with a budget shortfall that by the end of this year will be about $40 million.
''We are up against the wall,'' said the High Commissioner, Poul Hartling of Denmark, in a recent interview. ''We are not crying wolf; it is a bad situation.'' 
The financial crisis is attributed both to the strength of the dollar, which reduced the value of donations in other currencies, and to the strain of emergency programs to relieve the effects of drought in Africa.
Officials of the agency are planning to ask major donor nations such as the United States, Britain, Canada and West Germany for an immediate grant of about $100 million.
''Normally, we are short of money at the beginning of the year because governments announce pledges but it takes time before they pay,'' said Mr. Hartling, who is to leave office on New Year's Day. ''Normally we have a carry-over of funds from the previous year. But we are afraid there won't be any this year and therefore the problems for 1986 are very real.''
Mr. Hartling has warned repeatedly in recent weeks that without more money, the agency will have to reduce or stop a number of programs, including ones that provide school equipment, housing, medical treatment and help with agriculture.
''We will do our utmost not to come to the point of life or death for refugees,'' Mr. Hartling said, referring to food programs. ''We have never reached that situation and I don't think the international community will accept it.''
Donations from the 70 nations that contribute to the agency increased 24 percent this year, providing for a total budget of $319 million. In addition, the office undertook a special $107 million program for African drought relief.
Normally, only about one-third of the annual budget is pledged during the November meetings, and only a part of that is provided for immediate use, agency officials said. The agency is forbidden from borrowing money or spending more than it has. Unlike nearly all other United Nations-related agencies, it does not assess member or donor nations for contributions.
Officials of the agency say the present crisis is one of limited resources in the face of massive needs, making the situation unlike those in which the agency has been short of funds before.
During Mr. Hartling's eight-year tenure, the agency has seen a steady rise in the number of refugees, who have included more than 500,000 Vietnamese boat people, three million Afghans fleeing the war in their homeland, hundreds of thousands fleeing Cambodia and hundreds of thousands of refugees from drought this year alone in the Sudan and Ethiopia.
''Refugees are not like a business,'' Mr. Hartling said. ''The number doesn't go up every year by 5 percent or so. It goes up and down, up and down. And these days, it's going up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

147 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 15, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Sets Conditions for Using Troops to Aid Refugees in Zaire

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE   

SECTION: Section A;    Page 7;    Column 1;    Foreign Desk   

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 14

Plans for an international military mission to support relief efforts for a million refugees in eastern Zaire bogged down today as Canadian and American officials haggled over details.
As the Security Council stood by ready to give the operation its official approval, the Canadians, who have volunteered to command the roughly 15,000-troop force, and the Americans, who have offered several thousand soldiers, argued over the duration and conditions of the operation, officials said. The refugees, trapped by fighting between rival factions near the Zaire-Rwanda border, are said to be dying in large numbers from hunger and thirst. 
 American officials said they want to wait for a cease-fire in the sporadic fighting between Hutu militias and Zairian Tutsi rebels.
Other countries have said the situation is too dire to wait. At a news conference today, Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada, who has been chosen to command the force, evaded a direct comment on this issue by saying he expected to have the agreement and cooperation of the countries in the region.
Canada said today that it was prepared to keep troops in the region for up to six months; the White House has insisted on a limit of four months.
About 1,000 United States soldiers are expected to capture and hold the airport at Goma, Zaire, and open a corridor from there to the Rwandan border. Another 2,000 to 3,000 Americans would be at staging bases outside Zaire.
Both sides agree that an international force would not attempt to disarm combatants, including Hutu militias that have been attacking Rwanda from bases in or around refugee camps in Zaire. Today, some of those fighters told reporters they would attack foreign troops.
The Security Council cannot authorize and dispatch the force until remaining American concerns are met. Diplomats said they hoped a council resolution could be adopted on Friday, a week after the issue first came to the council's agenda. Deputy Foreign Minister Gordon Smith of Canada said today that a resolution was "pretty close."
As talks went on at Canada's Mission to the United Nations with the Americans, who were led by the national security adviser, Anthony Lake, General Baril addressed a news conference where he outlined his plan for operations in Central Africa: The Canadian-led force would establish staging bases at Entebbe, Uganda; Kigali, Rwanda, and Nairobi, Kenya. Two forward operating bases would be set up at Goma and Bukavu, in eastern Zaire. Land corridors would be opened from Rwanda and Uganda into Zaire.
General Baril said the task would be primarily to provide security and support to relief organizations that will try to reach refugees now wandering over large areas of Zaire. The force would also help the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees set up conditions necessary for the voluntary repatriation of refugees, but would not intervene in local disputes or force Rwandan refugees back to their country.
Human rights organizations are opposed to a forced return of Rwandans, mostly Hutu who fled the country after a Tutsi-led army took over the country. Many Hutu now in Zaire were involved in the massacre of Tutsi in the spring of 1994 and fear retribution. On the other hand, Rwanda does not want the Hutu to establish large camps in Zaire.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH  

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

150 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Charleston Gazette-Mail

February 4, 2018, Sunday

US promised to protect refugees after Holocaust

BYLINE: Rebecca Erbelding

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P8A

LENGTH: 876 words

The Trump administration has proposed limiting the annual number of refugees resettled in the United States to 45,000, citing national security concerns. While introducing new vetting procedures for refugees, Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen issued a statement on Monday that the United States "must continue to fulfill its obligation to the global community to assist those facing persecution.
Modern American refugee policy was written in the wake of the Holocaust, after Nazi Germany and its collaborators murdered millions, including hundreds of thousands of Jews who had applied to immigrate but were unable to navigate strict U.S. laws. Yet it is almost certain that even before that, the United States in 1939 - while facing high unemployment, national security fears and an impending world war - admitted more refugees fleeing persecution than we did in 2017 or will in 2018. 
By 1938, Americans had suffered under the Great Depression for nearly a decade. After a partial economic recovery in the mid-1930s, a new recession brought workforce unemployment back up to 19 percent.
As the world marked the 20th anniversary of the end of World War I in November of that year, Nazi German leadership unleashed the Kristallnacht pogrom. Their followers destroyed shops and synagogues, and arrested 30,000 Jewish men and boys, who were sent to concentration camps.
Another war seemed inevitable. On the radio, singer Kate Smith debuted a new song with a verse we've forgotten today: "While the storm clouds gather, far across the sea, let us swear allegiance to a land that's free. ... God bless America, land that I love. Americans did not want to be dragged into another war, and many people worried that the Nazis, or the Japanese or the Soviets, might have placed spies or saboteurs in their midst.
America's immigration laws had then been in place since the 1924 Johnson-Reed Act, which designated the number of immigration slots open to people born in specific countries. That way, the authors of the act argued, it wouldn't matter where an immigrant was living, only where they were born, their "national origin.
It was a way to restrict applicants born in southern and Eastern Europe, Africa and the areas of Asia where immigration wasn't already banned, and to promote applicants from countries that were whiter, who, they thought would be more easily assimilated.
Norway, from which President Donald Trump reportedly recently pined for more immigrants, originally had an annual quota of 6,543 immigrants to the United States. In contrast, only 1,200 immigrants could come from the entirety of Africa.
In 1939, the United States admitted at least 43,450 Jews, almost all from Europe. But we know the number only because immigrants arriving here had to list their own "race, and until 1943, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (now split into two different Department of Homeland Security agencies) considered "Hebrew a race.
Plenty of people being persecuted by the Nazis as Jews didn't self-identify as Jewish and would have listed themselves as "German (for example), so the actual number of refugees fleeing Nazism that year was clearly higher than 43,450. Although the United States did not have a substantive refugee policy - those fleeing persecution had to follow the same steps as other immigrants - Jewish refugees alone constituted more than half of all immigration to the United States.
At the same time, more than 300,000 applicants sat on the German quota waiting list. In the Johnson-Reed Act, U.S. officials had granted to Germany the second-largest quota of any country, though the authors of the racist and anti-Semitic immigration law probably would not have done so had they known that most of the applicants in the 1930s would be Jewish. Germany's 27,370 quota slots meant an 11-year wait for new applicants.
Though neither they nor the U.S. government knew it at the time, most of the people on the list in 1939 would not make it to America; they would, instead, be killed in the Holocaust.
The Holocaust began in 1941 after American consulates were forced to close in Nazi territory. The Washington Post first introduced Americans to the word "genocide in December 1944. Most people here would not see photographic evidence of the Holocaust until the concentration camps in western Europe were liberated in 1945.
Today, we know the Myanmar military is murdering the minority Rohingya population and tens of thousands of Syrians are being "disappeared by their own government. We have film, photographs, evidence, testimony, witnesses.
In the 80 years since the refugee crisis of the late 1930s, the U.S. population has nearly tripled. Instead of the 19 percent unemployment of 1938, the current unemployment rate is 4.1 percent. Though the president engages in terrifying rhetoric on Twitter, world war does not seem imminent. Our tools for weeding out potential spies and saboteurs are infinitely more sophisticated.
The United Nations High Commission on Human Rights declared in 2016 that the ongoing refugee crisis is the worst since World War II. We lament America's failure to admit more European Jewish refugees before the Holocaust. Our descendants will be much harsher when they look at America's inaction today.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Charleston Newspapers

155 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 4, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Pierce Gerety, 56, Official Who Helped African Refugees

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 3

Pierce Gerety, a Harvard-educated lawyer who briefly considered the priesthood but instead devoted his life to helping refugees trapped in the maelstroms of war and disaster around the world, died on Wednesday night in the crash of the Swissair jetliner off Nova Scotia. He would have been 57 next Monday.
Mr. Gerety worked for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees as director of operations for the region of central Africa encompassing Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika, an assignment that took him into Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. He was admired by other humanitarian workers for his coolness in the face of trouble. 
 "He had probably been in more physically dangerous situations than anyone else in the refugee field," said Robert P. De Vecchi, the retired president of the International Rescue Committee, which originally hired Mr. Gerety to work with Cambodian refugees in Thailand. "He was equally comfortable briefing a head of state or pulling a Vietnamese fishing boat out of the water."
Mr. Gerety's brother Tom, who is president of Amherst College, said: "Pierce was shot at a lot. It seemed like he was constantly courting risk and always pretty much got away scot-free."
It was ironic, Dr. Gerety added, that his brother lost his life on one of the world's safest airlines, flying to one of the world's safest cities.
Pierce Gerety was born into a family in Fairfield, Conn., that valued public service. His father, Pierce Joseph Garety Sr., was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to supervise the admission of refugees entering the United States after World War II.
The younger Mr. Gerety graduated from Yale University in 1962 and studied theology and philosophy at the Institute Catholique in Paris, where he found time to set up a soup kitchen. He considered becoming a Roman Catholic priest until he fell in love with a young Frenchwoman, Marie de la Soudiere. They married and went off to India to work for the Catholic Relief Services.
After a couple of years Mr. Gerety returned home to attend Harvard Law School, receiving his law degree in 1971. Ignoring more lucrative prospects, he became a Legal Aid lawyer in New York City.
"He was a little impatient with American law," Dr. Gerety said of his brother. "He wanted to be out and among people in crisis and need."
In 1979, Pierce Gerety approached the International Rescue Committee and volunteered to go to Thailand and help with Cambodian refugees who had fled their homeland.
"He was a person with a very quick intelligence, an intuitive sense of a situation and what needed to be done with the resources at hand," Mr. De Vecchi said.
In 1982, Mr. Gerety became a legal officer at the headquarters of the United Nations High Commissioner in Geneva, but soon began pushing to get back into the field.
"He had a quality of impatience and of a desire to go out and live on the edge," Dr. Gerety said. "It was not dogmatic or ideological. He retained this almost Catholic passion for working with the poorest of the poor."
Pierce Gerety demonstraterd this in a succession of difficult assignments, helping Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Vietnamese refugees in the Philippines and, more recently, refugees in southern Sudan.
Mr. Gerety was lent to the United Nations Children's Fund in Somalia, where a warlord, Mohammed Aidid, took to kidnapping humanitarian aid workers. Mr. Gerety walked into the warlord's armed camp and coolly negotiated their release.
Mr. Gerety returned to the refugee agency and was appointed last year as its director of operations in cental Africa, where he and other officials pleaded with the Congolese rebel leader Laurent Kabila to stop the slaughter of Rwandan refugees.
After the risks he took, friends said, Mr. Gerety wanted to spend more time with his wife, who directs the International Rescue Committee's program for children affected by wars, and their three children, Sebastian, Pierce and Maeve. Mr. Gerety is also survived by his mother, Helen, of Southport, Conn., and two other brothers, Peter, a lawyer in Fairfield, Conn., and Miles, a lawyers in Redding, Conn.
"He was very proud of his children and very much in love with his wife, and vice versa," said Susan Walker, a coordinator of the International Campaign to Ban Land Mines, who first met Mr. Gerety in Thailand. "It was a joy to see them.

NAME: Pierce Gerety

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pierce Gerety (Associated Press)
       

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company

156 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 14, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE OTHER REFUGEES

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

To the Editor:
 The Sept. 28 Op-Ed article on Somalia maintained that a total of about 2.1 million Somalis and Oromo have fled the Ogaden and now live in Somalia. However, before the present conflict started, only about one million people inhabited the Ogaden region.  Very few Oromo ever lived there. 
he Oromo, one of the largest ethnic groups in Africa, account for 60 percent of Ethiopia's population. However, the Amhara, Ethiopia's ruling minority, do not recognize the Oromo (whom they call Galla), because to do so would focus international attention on ethnic conflict within the empire. The Amhara, who constitute less than 15 percent of the empire's population but have ruled since the 19th century, have systematically driven the Oromo from their fertile lands and subjected them to torture, imprisonment, forced conscription and execution.
The Oromo refugees with whom I spoke at the August meeting of the Seventh Congress of the Union of Oromo Students in North America left Ethiopia for various reasons. Some were wanted by the police for teaching the Oromo language in village schools. Some had been jailed and tortured on suspicion of belonging to Oromo political organizations. Others decided to leave Ethiopia after a close friend or family member had been killed or jailed ''indefinitely.''
Recently stepped-up military action by Ethiopia's junta has caused still more to flee. Last April and May Reuters and the Scandinavian missionary magazine Vart Land independently reported that the military had sprayed flammable chemicals over an Oromo-populated valley in southern Ethiopia and then ignited the chemicals with rockets and incendiary devices launched from helicopter gunships.  Besides the destruction of animals, buildings and crops, more than 2,000 Oromo were killed and more than 20,000 fled the area.
In the past, the Ethiopian Government has asked the European Economic Community and the United Nations for funds to settle ''unoccupied'' areas, such as this one, with Amhara colonists.
Clearly, to understand the causes of people fleeing the Ethiopian empire one must consider more than the Ogaden border dispute.  JASON W. CLAY Director of Research Cultural Survival Inc.  Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 2, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

171 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

April 14, 2016 Thursday

Washington: Legislators speak to La Posada refugees

LENGTH: 377  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Joyce Beatty has issued the following news release:

  

 The members of Congress touring South Texas were full of questions for the young African refugees standing in front of them. 


 

 "What were the causes that you left your home country?" said U.S. Rep. Hank Johnson, D- Georgia.

 

 He and 11 other members of the Congressional Black Caucus stopped Friday at La Posada Providencia, which houses refugees fleeing danger in their home countries.

 

 Johnson said U.S. Rep Filemon Vela, D-Brownsville, invited the congressmen to his district to learn about health care and other issues.

 

 At La Posada, they sat at a round table while women from Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia stood before them and told their stories of danger and survival.

 

 The woman addressed by Johnson explained the reasons why she and her husband fled East Africa.

 

 "My husband was in prison for 21 days because of his political party," answered the slender woman, her voice and gestures conveying grief and strength. Like the other women's husbands, hers was in detention in another part of the country.

 

 Sister Zita Telkamp, program director of La Posada, told the legislators that when a family crosses the border, there are no facilities to accommodate women and/or children. Authorities call Sister Zita about accommodating them, and the husbands are shipped off to detention.

 

 There recently had been a large influx of refugees.

 

 "I am from Eritrea," Almas said as she addressed the group.

 

 "How long have you been here?" said U.S. Rep. Joyce Beatty, D-Ohio.

 

 "One month," Almas said. "I came here with my husband, and he's in detention in Washington, D.C."

 

 One legislator asked how they make the trip from Africa to the U.S. The women's English wasn't good enough for them to explain. However, Jose Rodriguez, a former refugee and resident who now works at the facility, explained they first travel to South America and then journey north through Central America before crossing the border into the United States.

 

 "That really is an Underground Railroad," Beatty said.

 

 "An international one," said U.S. Representative Yvette Clarke, D-New York.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

172 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 23, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST 

America's Duty to Take In Refugees; 
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: SCOTT ARBEITER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 807 words


HIGHLIGHT: With 65 million displaced people, we must become a new Ellis Island.

This year the United States will take in 85,000 of the world's most vulnerable so they can begin new lives in America, the highest number since 2001. But at a time when 65 million people have been displaced by violence, and 20 million of them are classified as refugees -- more than half of them children -- it is not enough.
Recently, the Obama administration took a small step forward, raising the number of refugees the country will let in to 110,000 for the next fiscal year. The next step is for Congress to allocate resources for resettlement -- something it has always done, in a bipartisan fashion, since the refugee crisis after World War II.
Unfortunately, this time, a vocal minority in Congress, the states and the public are arguing that we should respond to this humanitarian crisis by pulling up the welcome mat, even for families fleeing the civil war in Syria and the brutality of the Islamic State. Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, called the administration's increase "reckless and extreme."
Fear of refugees is not new. In 1939, the United States turned awaymore than 900 Jewsfleeing Hitler's Germany because of worries that some might be Nazi conspirators or Communists. More than a quarter of those refugees died in the Holocaust.
Some say we should be as fearful of refugees today, especially in an era of terrorist attacks. Yet since 2001, more than 800,000 refugees have been resettled in the United States, and none have been convicted of an act of domestic terrorism. Compassion and security can coexist.
My organization, World Relief, has settled more than a quarter of a million refugees in this country over the past 40 years, working with thousands of congregations to welcome others who have no place to call home, creating a place not just to live, but a place to belong. We're an evangelical charity, and our motivations for this work come from what we believe about Jesus, who was himself a refugee who fled with his mother and father to Egypt, and told us to "do for others as we would want done for us."
We are joined in this work by many other agencies, religious and secular. They act out of their own traditions and conviction, but all see the need to take bold action to end human suffering.
My group's resettlement efforts began in 1979, when a couple who had returned from two decades of ministry in Vietnam searched for a local church to welcome a refugee family. Over the next decade, the federal government, resettlement agencies and thousands of local churches resettled more than 700,000 refugees from Asia, most from Vietnam. Today, Vietnamese-Americans are a resounding success story: Compared with the country as a whole, they are more likely to be employed and less likely to live in poverty, and they earn slightly higher wages.
Some have argued that countries in the Middle East accept too few refugees, and should take more. But two of Syria's neighbors, Jordan and Lebanon, host more refugees per capita than any European country.
Even comparing the United States with other Western countries, our contributions are modest. Canada resettled more than double the number of Syrian refugees America received, even though their population is roughly a tenth of the United States population. The United States takes in less than half of 1 percent of the world's refugees.
Refugee resettlement has always received bipartisan support because the quest for freedom and safety embodied in refugees' stories represents the values that make America great, and because our national security is actually strengthened when we respond with wisdom and compassion. Jihadists hate our compassion for refugees, because it disproves the claims about Americans they use to sow hatred and violence. Acting according to the best angels of our nature may produce our greatest long-term strength and security.
The president has called for greater commitments from all nations, and this higher quota is meant to lead by example. Congress must now do its part. It can offer -- and I pray will offer -- a response that combines the best of our wisdom, compassion and courage. Organizations like mine stand ready to work with our political leaders to keep the welcome mat out.
Virtually every day, in quiet corners of airports across the country, refugees are being welcomed and cared for by teams from churches and community groups. It is in scenes like these, unseen by most, where we recapture the spirit of which we as American citizens have been justifiably proud for most of our nation's history.
This is our new Ellis Island. It is the expression of our faith and our humanity, and it is a worthy response to the legacy we have inherited.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Scott Arbeiter is the president of World Relief.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request included other documents, they completed successfully.

174 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Denver Post

November 21, 2016 Monday  
MON REGIONAL Edition

Colo. Rhodes scholar to study mass migrations

BYLINE: Steven K. Paulson

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 340 words

A former Colorado high school student is headed to the University of Oxford after winning a prestigious Rhodes scholarship to study mass migrations caused by world turmoil.
Hannah Carrese said the current definition of a refugee is outdated in the 21st century because international agreements apply to individuals fleeing violence or persecution, and not mass migrations from places such as Syria, Honduras, El Salvador and North Africa. 
She worked with refugees from Bhutan while she was in high school in Colorado Springs then went to Mexico to work with refugees fleeing violence in Central America.
Carrese said that when she gets to Oxford next year, she plans to look for ways to provide aid so people won't have to flee their homes and find new policies for countries to deal with mass influxes of refugees.
"These people don't fit the international definition of a refugee, but they're still fleeing violence," said Carrese, who graduated from Yale University in May.
She said under current rules, individuals must show they need refuge in another country because of persecution for race, religion, ethnicity or political affiliation or that they are a member of a persecuted social group.
"Now people are fleeing entire states in masses," she said, and countries around the globe have limited resources to deal with their problems.
Carrese said people often criticize the United States about its immigration policies and deportation of undocumented immigrants, mostly Latinos. But she said the United States is better than other countries because it provides paths to citizenship for people who qualify.
She said people often are not aware of violence and discrimination in places such as Bhutan, where Hindus are fleeing the Buddhist government, and places such as Israel, where the government is struggling to cope with large numbers of people from Ethiopia and Eritrea.
She said countries have dealt with immigrants for centuries, but the pace has escalated during the past decade, requiring new standards and policies to deal with them.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hannah Carrese is a Yale grad from Colo-rado Springs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
All Rights Reserved

175 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

January 22, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
Should Every Emigre Really Be Equal Under the Law?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

CONGRESS did away with quotas based on national origin when it overhauled the immigration law in 1965. And in 1980 it abolished the presumption that anyone fleeing Communism was a refugee. But experience in the last few months shows that it is much easier to write an evenhanded law than to carry it out in the face of political pressures reflecting special concern for particular groups of emigres.
The issues sound legalistic, but they generate impassioned debate because of what they involve: freedom, the reunification of families scattered around the world and the opportunity to live in the United States. In setting refugee policy, American officials wrestle with an endless series of problems requiring difficult choices. 
The subject of Soviet emigres reflects the complexities. For decades, the United States has been demanding that the Soviet authorities permit their citizens to leave the country. Washington was happy to take all the Soviet citizens who gained permission to come here.
But in the last year, American policy has succeeded beyond the dreams of any American official. Moscow is allowing so many people to leave that it now seems the United States cannot accommodate them all within its refugee quota. After setting the 1989 quota at 18,000 from the Soviet Union, President Reagan increased the number shortly before leaving office to 25,000, mainly by reducing the quota for Southeast Asian refugees. And even that will not be enough; American officials estimate that 50,000 Soviet citizens will apply to come here as refugees this year. Mr. Reagan could have increased the Soviet quota without reducing the allocation for any other part of the world, but that would have required additional funds for the resettlement of refugees, and the Reagan Administration did not want to ask Congress for the money.
At the same time, the United States has concluded that some Soviet applicants do not qualify for refugee status because they cannot demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in the Soviet Union. That finding enrages some Jewish groups, which assert that virtually all Soviet Jews still face persecution on account of their religion.
 
Comparing the Merits
State Department officials say they do not like to compare one country with another because each has a distinctive identity and history. But in deciding how many refugees to admit from each part of the world, the United States must compare the merits of their claims because neither the Federal budget nor public opinion would permit an unlimited increase in the number of refugees admitted to this country.
The United States has always been a nation of immigrants, and refugees are, in one sense, a legacy of American political and military intervention around the world.
Indochinese refugees do not have a powerful lobby in Washington at this time, but the United States has strong reasons to take many of them. Some used to work for the United States or for the old Government of South Vietnam and have been political prisoners. Hundreds of thousands of Indochinese refugees have found a temporary haven in countries of ''first asylum'' like Thailand and Malaysia. But those countries offered shelter only after receiving assurances that the refugees would eventually be resettled in the United States and other Western countries. The United States contends that some of the emigres are economic migrants, not genuine political refugees - a distinction made with increasing frequency in recent years.
The Reagan Administration also felt a special obligation to some refugees in Central America. Mr. Reagan assured Honduras last year that the United States would accept responsibility for thousands of Nicaraguan guerrillas living in Honduran camps. Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker 3d said last week, ''We cannot and we must not abandon'' the contras. Some in the State Department and Congress predict that eventually most of the contras and their relatives will find a home in the United States. That prospect infuriates some liberals like Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, who sees the problem as a result of Reagan Administration policy in Central America.
In the last few months, immigration officials have reported an increase in the number of would-be refugees from Central America, especially Nicaragua. But officials in Miami, which has welcomed Hispanic immigrants for three decades and has been the destination for most Nicaraguan migrants, say they cannot cope with the latest wave.
The Bush Administration will be considering a proposal by State Department and immigration officials under which Congress would establish a new category of immigrant. The proposal would provide visas for 20,000 to 30,000 aliens whose admission was deemed to be in the ''foreign policy interest'' of the United States.
The proposal would, in effect, move away from the principle established in 1965 and reaffirmed in 1980 that the United States should not favor specific nationalities, but should employ uniform worldwide standards in deciding who qualifies as an immigrant or refugee.
Mr. Bush said earlier this month that he would ''take a hard new look'' at immigration policy, and, he added in an understatement, ''There are no easy answers.''
 
CHANGING TIDES
Refugees admitted to the United States (fiscal years)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 



Eastern
Soviet
Latin
Middle East/

Africa
Asia
Europe
Union
America
South Asia
1975
0
135,000
1,947
6,211
3,000
0
1976
0
15,000
1,756
7,450
3,000
0
1977
0
7,000
1,755
8,191
3,000
0
1978
0
20,574
2,245
10,688
3,000
0
1979
0
76,521
3,393
24,449
7,000
0
1980
955
163,799
5,025
28,444
6,662
2,231
1981
2,119
131,139
6,704
13,444
2,017
3,829
1982
3,326
73,522
10,780
2,756
602
6,369
1983
2,648
39,408
12,083
1,409
668
5,465
1984
2,747
51,960
10,285
715
160
5,246
1985
1,953
49,970
9,350
640
138
5,994
1986
1,315
45,454
8,713
787
173
5,998
1987
1,994
40,112
8,606
3,694
315
10,107
1988
1,588
35,015
7,818
20,421
2,497
8,415

 
(Source: State Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

176 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 24, 2016 Saturday

Washington: Remarks at Leaders Summit on Refugees

LENGTH: 2326  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: U.S. Mission to the United Nations has issued the following news release:

  

 Thank you. (Applause.) Yusra, we could not be prouder of you -- not just for the great introduction, but more importantly, for your courage and your resilience and the great example that you're setting for children everywhere, including your eight-year-old sister, who I know must look up to you. (Applause.) 


 

 Good afternoon. Mr. Secretary General; Your Excellencies, we are here because, right now, in crowded camps and cities around the world, there are families -- from Darfur in Chad, Palestinians in Lebanon, Afghans in Pakistan, Colombians in Ecuador -- who've endured years -- in some cases, decades -- as refugees, surviving on rations and aid, and who dream of someday, somehow, having a home of their own.

 

 We're here because, right now, there are young girls -- like Yusra, like my daughters -- who are just as precious and just as gifted -- like the 16-year-old refugee from Myanmar that I met in Malaysia -- who've suffered unspeakable abuse at the hands of traffickers, modern day slavery, girls who pray at night that someone might rescue them from their torment. There are boys, fleeing the fighting in South Sudan, violence in Central America, wars in North Africa and the Middle East -- who are at the mercy of criminals who pack them into trucks or makeshift rafts, and who die on treacherous seas -- like little Alan Kurdi from Syria, lifeless, face down on a Turkish beach, in his red shirt and blue pants.

 

 We are here because, right now, there are mothers separated from their children -- like the woman in a camp in Greece, who held on to her family photographs, heard her children cry on the phone, and who said "my breath is my children&hellip;every day I am dying 10, 20, 30 times." We're here because there are fathers who simply want to build a new life and provide for their families -- like Refaai Hamo, from Syria, who lost his wife and daughter in the war, who we welcomed to America, and who says, "I still think I have a chance to make a difference in the world."

 

 Mr. Secretary General; heads of state and heads of government; distinguished guests; ladies and gentlemen: As you saw in the video, we are facing a crisis of epic proportions. More than 65 million people have been driven from their homes -- which is more than any time since the Second World War. Among them are more than 21 million refugees who have fled their countries -- everything and everyone they've ever known, fleeing with a suitcase or the clothes on their back.

 

 And I'm here today -- I called this summit -- because this crisis is one of the most urgent tests of our time -- our capacity for collective action. To test, first and foremost, our ability to end conflicts, because so many of the world's refugees come from just three countries ravaged by war -- Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia.

 

 And I said today to the General Assembly, the mentality that allows for violence with impunity is something we cannot excuse. And collectively, we continue to make excuses. It's not the subject of this summit, but we all know that what is happening in Syria, for example, is unacceptable. And we are not as unified as we should be in pushing to make it stop.

 

 It's a test of our international system where all nations ought to share in our collective responsibilities, because the vast majority of refugees are hosted by just 10 countries who are bearing a very heavy burden -- among them Turkey, Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran, Ethiopia. Countries that often have fewer resources than many of those who are doing little or nothing.

 

 It is a crisis of our shared security. Not because refugees are a threat. Refugees, most of whom are women and children, are often fleeing war and terrorism. They are victims. They're families who want to be safe and to work, be good citizens and contribute to their country -- I was talking to Yusra -- she's now in Germany. She already speaks some English. Now she's trying to learn German -- who are interested in assimilating and contributing to the society in which they find themselves.

 

 In recent years, in the United States, we've worked to put in intensive screening and security checks, so we can welcome refugees and ensure our security -- in fact, refugees are subject to more rigorous screening than the average tourist. We've seen in America, hardworking, patriotic refugees serve in our military, and start new businesses and help revitalize communities. I believe refugees can make us stronger.

 

 So the challenge to our security is because when desperate refugees pay cold-hearted traffickers for passage, it funds the same criminals who are smuggling arms and drugs and children. When nations with their own internal difficulties find themselves hosting massive refugee populations for years on end, it can risk more instability. It oftentimes surfaces tensions in our society when we have disorderly and disproportionate migration into some countries that skews our politics and is subject to demagoguery.

 

 And if we were to turn refugees away simply because of their background or religion, or, for example, because they are Muslim, then we would be reinforcing terrorist propaganda that nations like my own are somehow opposed to Islam, which is an ugly lie that must be rejected in all of our countries by upholding the values of pluralism and diversity.

 

 And finally, this crisis is a test of our common humanity -- whether we give in to suspicion and fear and build walls, or whether we see ourselves in another. Those girls being trafficked and tortured, they could be our daughters. That little boy on the beach could be our son or our grandson. We cannot avert our eyes or turn our backs. To slam the door in the face of these families would betray our deepest values. It would deny our own heritage as nations, including the United States of America, that have been built by immigrants and refugees. And it would be to ignore a teaching at the heart of so many faiths that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us; that we welcome the stranger in our midst. And just as failure to act in the past -- for example, by turning away Jews fleeing Nazi Germany -- is a stain on our collective conscience, I believe history will judge us harshly if we do not rise to this moment.

 

 First and foremost, we must recognize that refugees are a symptom of larger failures -- be it war, ethnic tensions, or persecution. If we truly want to address the crisis, wars like the savagery in Syria must be brought to an end -- and it will be brought to an end through political settlement and diplomacy, and not simply by bombing.

 

 We have to insist on greater investments in development and education and democratic institutions -- the lack of which fuels so much of the instability we see in the world. And we need to continue to speak up for justice and equality, and insist that the universal human rights of every person are upheld, everywhere.

 

 In the face of this crisis, with what often seems grim news, we are grateful for the heroic work of so many around the world. Leaders who, often in the face of difficult politics at home, welcome refugees as new neighbors. Businesses, such as those I met with right before I came here, which had made commitments worth more than $650 million to empower refugees. International institutions and faith groups and NGOs, including InterAction -- the alliance of American NGOs -- whose members will invest more than $1.2 billion over the next three years to assist the world's displaced people and refugees.

 

 As Americans, we're determined to do our part. The [United States] is the largest single donor of humanitarian aid around the world, including to refugees and to the people of Syria. We resettle more refugees than any other nation. As President, I've increased the number of refugees we are resettling to 85,000 this year, which includes 10,000 Syrian refugees -- a goal we've exceeded even as we've upheld our rigorous screening. And I called for this summit because we all have to do more.

 

 I want to thank our co-hosts, Secretary General Ban, and Jordan. Obviously, Jordan is carrying an enormous burden as a consequence of the conflict, and we are grateful for His Majesty and the work that they've done. Mexico, which is absorbing a great number of refugees from Central America. Sweden, which has made enormous humanitarian contributions in addition to taking on refugees. Germany and Canada -- two countries that have gone above and beyond in providing support for refugees. And I want to personally thank Chancellor Merkel and Prime Minister Trudeau, and the people of both those countries -- because the politics sometimes can be hard, but it's the right thing to do. And Ethiopia, which as was noted in the video, bears an enormous burden.

 

 I also want to thank the more than 50 nations and organizations participating in this summit for making tangible, concrete commitments. Collectively, our nations have increased our contributions to humanitarian organizations and U.N. appeals this year by some $4.5 billion, and that includes a $1 billion increase this year from the United States. This will translate concretely into lifesaving food, and medicine, and clothing, and shelter.

 

 But since we can't just keep on doing the same thing the same way -- allowing refugees to languish in camps, disconnected from society -- we've also been working with the World Bank to create new financing facilities to assist countries hosting refugees build schools and economic opportunities. As part of these efforts, the United States will contribute at least $50 million to help middle-income countries, and we'll do more to help low-income countries so that refugees and their host communities can flourish and grow stronger together. The refugees in places like Ecuador or Kenya don't always get as much attention as some of the recent migrations, but they need help too. And that's part of our goal here.

 

 Collectively, our nations are roughly doubling the number of refugees that we admit to our countries to more than 360,000 this year. Again, I want to especially commend Germany, Canada, Austria, the Netherlands and Australia for their continued leadership, as well countries like Argentina and Portugal for their new commitments. And today, I'm proud to announce that the United States will continue our leadership role. In the coming fiscal year, starting next week, the United States will welcome and resettle 110,000 refugees from around the world -- which is a nearly 60 percent increase over 2015. We intend to do it right, and we will do it safely.

 

 Collectively, the major commitments by Turkey, Thailand, Chad and Jordan will help more than one million children who are refugees get an education; will help one million refugees get training, new skills or find a job. And in all of this work, we cannot forget those who are often the most vulnerable to abuse -- young girls and women. So a key part of our efforts must be a renewed commitment to stopping sexual violence and forced marriage. And we need to do more to truly empower women and girls -- because every girl deserves the chance to grow and be safe, and every woman should have her human rights and dignity upheld.

 

 So I'm heartened by the commitments that have been made here today. They will help save lives. But we're going to have to be honest -- it's still not enough; not sufficient for a crisis of this magnitude. And that's why I believe this summit must be the beginning of a new global movement where everybody does more: More nations donating more assistance and accepting more refugees. More institutions and NGOs finding new ways to deliver aid. More businesses contributing their expertise. More faith groups making this work their own. More young people demanding action. More states and cities and towns coming forward and saying, yes, we will open our communities to our fellow human beings in need. And more pressure on those countries that are willing to perpetrate violence on their own citizens in pursuit of power that carries such a heavy human toll.

 

 We can learn from a young boy named Alex, who lives not far from here in Scarsdale, New York. Last month, like all of us, Alex saw that heartbreaking image -- five-year-old Omran Daqneesh in Aleppo, Syria, sitting in that ambulance, silent and in shock, trying to wipe the blood from his hands.

 

 And here in New York, Alex, who is just six years old, sat down and wrote me a letter. And he said, he wanted Omran to come live with him and his family. "Since he won't bring toys," Alex wrote, "I will share my bike and I will teach him how to ride it. I will teach him addition and subtraction. My little sister will be collecting butterflies and fireflies for him&hellip;We can all play together. We will give him a family and he will be our brother."

 

 Those are the words of a six-year-old boy. He teaches us a lot. (Applause.)

 

 The humanity that a young child can display, who hasn't learned to be cynical, or suspicious, or fearful of other people because of where they're from, or how they look, or how they pray, and who just understands the notion of treating somebody that is like him with compassion, with kindness -- we can all learn from Alex. Imagine the suffering we could ease, and the lives we could save, and what our world would look like if, seeing a child who's hurting anywhere in the world, we say, "We will give him a family and he will be our brother."

 

 We spend, so many of us in politics and in leadership, so much time devoted to ascending the ladders of power. We spend time maintaining it; we spend time trying to win over public opinion. And maybe sometimes we forget that the only rationale for doing it is to help that little boy. I hope and pray that we remember.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

  

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

178 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

September 13, 2015 Sunday

What can we do about flow of refugees?; 
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK EUROPE'S MIGRANT CRISIS

SECTION: ; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 2311 words

Refugees board a ferry at the port of Mytilini last week in Lesbos, Greece. Greece has been overwhelmed this year by the more than 230,000 migrants who have landed on its shores, pushing the island of Lesbos to its limits.
For several weeks, the top international story has been the seemingly endless waves of refugees pushing their way into Europe from Africa and the Mideast - and the response to European nations to these newcomers. Who has responsibility for the crisis? What should Europe do? Does the United States have a part to play? Are American policies part of the situation? New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman wrote, "Some very big tectonic plates are moving, and people feel it under their feet. The world is being redivided into regions of 'order' and 'disorder,' and for the first time in a long time, we don't have an answer for all the people flocking to get out of the world of disorder and into the world of order ... we have some hard new thinking and hard choices ahead." Today, we share some of what's being written in journals about the crisis. Your thoughts, as always, are welcome to keep the conversation going. Email rrollins@coxohio.com - Ron Rollins
From William Sale-tan, at Slate: This is one cost of globalization. 
The flood of migrants into Europe is just another stage of economic globalization. Today, information and images circle the world in a flash. Capital flows across borders toward cheap labor. Goods find their way to countries with disposable income. And increasingly, people who hate where they live, whether for economic or political reasons, can find out where they'd be better off and how to get there. Websites and social networks tell you which country has the best government benefits, which borders you'll have to cross, and what it'll cost you. Even in sub-Saharan Africa, according to a human trafficking expert quoted in the Washington Post, "You're never more than two conversations away from someone who can get you to Europe." ...
Once you understand the crisis this way
- as a black market in which humans are treated like goods - the practical steps become obvious. Step One is to drive down demand for emigration to Europe, by making life more bearable and hopeful in the countries people are fleeing. That means bolstering economies in West Africa, negotiating some kind of peace in Syria, and doing more to help people in refugee camps. If they can't stand life there, they'll find a way to go elsewhere.
Step Two is to shrink the supply of goods migrants can expect on arrival. ... To discourage further migration, Denmark is now buying ads in Lebanon to warn people that it has toughened its immigration policies and has halved its welfare benefits. You may think this is cruel. But if it alters the balance of supply and demand in the smuggling market, it could save lives.
Step Three is to open the market's choke points. Many of the people who die on the way to or through Europe aren't economic migrants. They're political refugees. They ought to be able to travel in broad daylight, not in the backs of trucks or in overloaded dinghies at night. ... That way, Germany can be more generous than Hungary. And nobody has to ride the highway between them in the back of a chicken truck.
From Steve Hilton, at The New York Times: Deal with the causes, not the symptoms.
While we can argue forever about the causes of conflict in the Middle East, it is impossible to ignore the impact of American foreign policy on what's happening in Europe. It was shocking to see an "expert" from the Council on Foreign Relations saying that the situation is "largely Europe's responsibility." How, exactly? The Iraq invasion (which could reasonably be described as "largely America's responsibility") unleashed a period of instability and competition in the region that is collapsing states and fueling sectarian conflict.
European leaders wanted, years ago, to intervene directly in Syria in order to check President Bashar al-Assad's cruelty; the United States didn't. You can understand why
- I wouldn't for one second question the judgment of American political leaders that their country was reluctant to participate in another military conflict. But at least acknowledge the consequences of nonintervention: the protracted Syrian civil war, the emergence of a lawless territory ripe for exploitation by the sick zealots of the Islamic State, and the resulting flood of millions of displaced people. ...
There's one more simple truth to acknowledge. Today's crisis will worsen in the years ahead unless we deal with the causes, not just the symptoms. That means serious and sustained action to create free societies people actually want to stay in. Places with a market economy, property rights, the rule of law, a free press, an independent judiciary and accountable democratic processes.
This is America's chance to say, "We have a moral responsibility to help. So the United States will welcome as many refugees as Europe: Not just thousands; hundreds of thousands. But there has to be a bargain. We cannot keep doing this. So we will now embark on a new effort to bring the basics of a decent life to the world's hot spots."
From Philip Giraldi, at The American Conservative: America bears responsibility for the crisis.
I would assign to Washington most of the blame for what is happening right now. Since folks inside the beltway are particularly given to making judgments based on numerical data they might be interested in the toll exacted through America's global war on terror. By one not unreasonable estimate, as many as four million Muslims have died or been killed as a result of the ongoing conflicts that Washington has either initiated or been party to since 2001.
There are, in addition, millions of displaced persons who have lost their homes and livelihoods, many of whom are among the human wave currently engulfing Europe. There are currently an estimated 2,590,000 refugees who have fled their homes from Afghanistan, 370,000 from Iraq, 3,880,000 million from Syria, and 1,100,000 from Somalia. The United Nations Refugee Agency is expecting at least 130,000 refugees from Yemen as fighting in that country accelerates. Between 600,000 and one million Libyans are living precariously in neighboring Tunisia. ...
Significantly, the countries that have generated most of the refugees are all places where the United States has invaded, overthrown governments, supported insurgencies, or intervened in a civil war. ...
It is perhaps past time for Washington to begin to become accountable for what it does. The millions of people living rough or in tents, if they are lucky, need help and it is not satisfactory for the White House to continue with its silence, a posture that suggests that the refugees are somehow somebody else's problem. They are, in fact, our problem.
From the editors of The Economis: Germany is setting the moral example for all.
For too long Europe has closed its eyes to Syria's foul and bloody civil war, and tried to keep the suffering multitudes out. Suddenly the continent's gates have been pushed open by two political forces. One is moral conscience, belatedly wakened by the image of a drowned Syrian child on a Turkish beach. The other is the political courage of Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, who told her people to set aside their fear of immigrants and show compassion to the needy.
Tens of thousands of asylum-seekers flowed toward Germany by rail, bus and on foot, chanting "Germany! Germany!", to be welcomed by cheering crowds. Germany is showing that old Europe, too, can take in the tired, the poor and the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. It says it can absorb not thousands, but hundreds of thousands of refugees.
Such numbers will inevitably raise many worries: that cultures will be swamped by aliens, economies will be overburdened, social benefits will have to be curbed and even that terrorists will creep in. Anti-immigrant parties have been on the rise across Europe. In America, too, some politicians want to build walls to keep foreigners out.
Yet the impulse to see migrants as chiefly a burden is profoundly mistaken. The answer to these familiar fears is not to put up more barriers, but to manage the pressures and the risks to ensure that migration improves the lives of both immigrants and their hosts. The starting point is a sense of perspective.
Germany's Willkommenskultur is right morally, economically and politically. It sets an example to the world. ... Helping Syrians is a clear moral duty. That responsibility falls not on Europe alone, but the world as a whole. It needs a coordinated policy to manage the Syrian crisis along the entire chain of displacement. There must be a concerted effort to contain the war, starting with the creation of protected havens. ...
Refugees are intertwined with economic migrants. They get on the same boats and resentment of migrants erodes support for refugees. How, then, to deal with those who want a better life rather than a safer one? ...
There are surely limits to how many migrants any society will accept. But the numbers Europe proposes to receive do not begin to breach them. The boundaries of social tolerance are fuzzy. They change with time and circumstance and leadership. Willkommenskultur shows that the people of Europe are more welcoming than their nervous politicians assume. The politics of fear can be trumped by the politics of dignity. Mrs. Merkel understood this; so should the rest of the world.
From Michael Rubin, at Commentary: Ideological extremism is driving the crisis.
Compassion is a noble European and American trait but, without context, it is shortsighted. ...
Angela Merkel may talk about absorbing 500,000 plus Middle Eastern migrants each year, and Obama may wish to absorb thousands more. There has been some discussion about the failure of the Gulf Arab states to pull their weight, and surprisingly little discussion about why China and Russia should absolve themselves, as usual, of providing humanitarian relief. While it might feel liberal and nice to welcome refugees with open arms, it can be counterproductive in the long-term.
The problem isn't simply the question about whether new refugees accept broader American or European values, or whether they seek opportunity without compromising culture and assimilating into the rule-of-law. Nor is the main problem that a willingness to embrace migrants encourages a brain drain which ultimately makes Syria, Libya, Iraq and Kurdistan more difficult to stabilize and rebuild. Rather, while embracing and welcoming refugees make governments feel good, statecraft shouldn't simply be social work. The refugees are the symptom. The disease, as in World War II, was ideological extremism. Until the United States and Europe craft a policy to deal with the cause of the refugee flight, they are only welcoming discord at home and more tragedy abroad.
From Patrick Weil, at AlJazeera America: There is world precedent for helping the refugees.
In order to put an end to the ongoing tragedy in the Mediterranean, a global international response is necessary. The first priority should be a coordinated resettlement effort.
Two iconic precedents come to mind for this sort of action. First, in response to the Nazi persecution of the European Jews, Franklin D. Roosevelt convened a multilateral conference in July 1938 in vian, France. However, it went down in history as an enormous failure: With the United States and Britain refusing to take in substantial numbers of Jews, the attendees' initial commitment to resettle refugees proved hollow.
Multilateral burden-sharing negotiations re-emerged in the late 1970s in response to the exodus of people fleeing Vietnam during the war. When the North Vietnamese took control of the South, thousands of people escaped into the South China Sea in boats, and, as in the Mediterranean today, enormous numbers of them never arrived at any destination. It was clear that without real solutions to help those whose lives were destroyed, boat departures would continue, so in 1979, governments came together in Geneva at the United Nations to negotiate the Orderly Departure Program, which aimed to provide a framework for resettlement.
Thanks to the Orderly Departure Program and a number of similar resettlement programs, almost 2 million visas were granted to Southeast Asian displaced people from 1975 to 1997. The most were resettled to the United States, which took in 1.3 million individuals, but it was by no means an exclusively American effort. ...
There are many reasons for the disintegration of Iraq, Syria, Libya and now Yemen, and no single grand narrative can capture the entire picture. But the very least we can do is agree that Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, which have taken in millions of refugees, are not to blame.
We cannot ignore the decisive role that the United States and its allies played in bringing about the current refugee crisis. This role began immediately after 9 /11, with the invasion of Iraq. The more recent intervention in Libya further contributed to the disaster.
From the editors of The Nation: This may be the new world order.
This is not a problem for Europe to solve alone. The Syrian civil war has displaced more than 4 million people, most of them to other countries in the region - though conspicuously not to the Persian Gulf states or Saudi Arabia, friend to the West and armorer of Islamist fighters in Syria.
The rise of the Islamic State - now terrorizing Syria and Iraq and threatening neighboring countries - was sparked by the aftermath of the Iraq invasion and further fueled by the misguided tactics of the United States and Britain in Syria.
Yet the United States has accepted just 1,500 Syrian refugees since the civil war began. ...
Meanwhile, the people keep coming, and will continue to risk their lives to come.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

179 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

September 13, 2015 Sunday

What can we do about flow of refugees?; 
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK EUROPE'S MIGRANT CRISIS

SECTION: ; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 2311 words

Refugees board a ferry at the port of Mytilini last week in Lesbos, Greece. Greece has been overwhelmed this year by the more than 230,000 migrants who have landed on its shores, pushing the island of Lesbos to its limits.
For several weeks, the top international story has been the seemingly endless waves of refugees pushing their way into Europe from Africa and the Mideast - and the response to European nations to these newcomers. Who has responsibility for the crisis? What should Europe do? Does the United States have a part to play? Are American policies part of the situation? New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman wrote, "Some very big tectonic plates are moving, and people feel it under their feet. The world is being redivided into regions of 'order' and 'disorder,' and for the first time in a long time, we don't have an answer for all the people flocking to get out of the world of disorder and into the world of order ... we have some hard new thinking and hard choices ahead." Today, we share some of what's being written in journals about the crisis. Your thoughts, as always, are welcome to keep the conversation going. Email rrollins@coxohio.com - Ron Rollins
From William Sale-tan, at Slate: This is one cost of globalization. 
The flood of migrants into Europe is just another stage of economic globalization. Today, information and images circle the world in a flash. Capital flows across borders toward cheap labor. Goods find their way to countries with disposable income. And increasingly, people who hate where they live, whether for economic or political reasons, can find out where they'd be better off and how to get there. Websites and social networks tell you which country has the best government benefits, which borders you'll have to cross, and what it'll cost you. Even in sub-Saharan Africa, according to a human trafficking expert quoted in the Washington Post, "You're never more than two conversations away from someone who can get you to Europe." ...
Once you understand the crisis this way
- as a black market in which humans are treated like goods - the practical steps become obvious. Step One is to drive down demand for emigration to Europe, by making life more bearable and hopeful in the countries people are fleeing. That means bolstering economies in West Africa, negotiating some kind of peace in Syria, and doing more to help people in refugee camps. If they can't stand life there, they'll find a way to go elsewhere.
Step Two is to shrink the supply of goods migrants can expect on arrival. ... To discourage further migration, Denmark is now buying ads in Lebanon to warn people that it has toughened its immigration policies and has halved its welfare benefits. You may think this is cruel. But if it alters the balance of supply and demand in the smuggling market, it could save lives.
Step Three is to open the market's choke points. Many of the people who die on the way to or through Europe aren't economic migrants. They're political refugees. They ought to be able to travel in broad daylight, not in the backs of trucks or in overloaded dinghies at night. ... That way, Germany can be more generous than Hungary. And nobody has to ride the highway between them in the back of a chicken truck.
From Steve Hilton, at The New York Times: Deal with the causes, not the symptoms.
While we can argue forever about the causes of conflict in the Middle East, it is impossible to ignore the impact of American foreign policy on what's happening in Europe. It was shocking to see an "expert" from the Council on Foreign Relations saying that the situation is "largely Europe's responsibility." How, exactly? The Iraq invasion (which could reasonably be described as "largely America's responsibility") unleashed a period of instability and competition in the region that is collapsing states and fueling sectarian conflict.
European leaders wanted, years ago, to intervene directly in Syria in order to check President Bashar al-Assad's cruelty; the United States didn't. You can understand why
- I wouldn't for one second question the judgment of American political leaders that their country was reluctant to participate in another military conflict. But at least acknowledge the consequences of nonintervention: the protracted Syrian civil war, the emergence of a lawless territory ripe for exploitation by the sick zealots of the Islamic State, and the resulting flood of millions of displaced people. ...
There's one more simple truth to acknowledge. Today's crisis will worsen in the years ahead unless we deal with the causes, not just the symptoms. That means serious and sustained action to create free societies people actually want to stay in. Places with a market economy, property rights, the rule of law, a free press, an independent judiciary and accountable democratic processes.
This is America's chance to say, "We have a moral responsibility to help. So the United States will welcome as many refugees as Europe: Not just thousands; hundreds of thousands. But there has to be a bargain. We cannot keep doing this. So we will now embark on a new effort to bring the basics of a decent life to the world's hot spots."
From Philip Giraldi, at The American Conservative: America bears responsibility for the crisis.
I would assign to Washington most of the blame for what is happening right now. Since folks inside the beltway are particularly given to making judgments based on numerical data they might be interested in the toll exacted through America's global war on terror. By one not unreasonable estimate, as many as four million Muslims have died or been killed as a result of the ongoing conflicts that Washington has either initiated or been party to since 2001.
There are, in addition, millions of displaced persons who have lost their homes and livelihoods, many of whom are among the human wave currently engulfing Europe. There are currently an estimated 2,590,000 refugees who have fled their homes from Afghanistan, 370,000 from Iraq, 3,880,000 million from Syria, and 1,100,000 from Somalia. The United Nations Refugee Agency is expecting at least 130,000 refugees from Yemen as fighting in that country accelerates. Between 600,000 and one million Libyans are living precariously in neighboring Tunisia. ...
Significantly, the countries that have generated most of the refugees are all places where the United States has invaded, overthrown governments, supported insurgencies, or intervened in a civil war. ...
It is perhaps past time for Washington to begin to become accountable for what it does. The millions of people living rough or in tents, if they are lucky, need help and it is not satisfactory for the White House to continue with its silence, a posture that suggests that the refugees are somehow somebody else's problem. They are, in fact, our problem.
From the editors of The Economis: Germany is setting the moral example for all.
For too long Europe has closed its eyes to Syria's foul and bloody civil war, and tried to keep the suffering multitudes out. Suddenly the continent's gates have been pushed open by two political forces. One is moral conscience, belatedly wakened by the image of a drowned Syrian child on a Turkish beach. The other is the political courage of Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, who told her people to set aside their fear of immigrants and show compassion to the needy.
Tens of thousands of asylum-seekers flowed toward Germany by rail, bus and on foot, chanting "Germany! Germany!", to be welcomed by cheering crowds. Germany is showing that old Europe, too, can take in the tired, the poor and the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. It says it can absorb not thousands, but hundreds of thousands of refugees.
Such numbers will inevitably raise many worries: that cultures will be swamped by aliens, economies will be overburdened, social benefits will have to be curbed and even that terrorists will creep in. Anti-immigrant parties have been on the rise across Europe. In America, too, some politicians want to build walls to keep foreigners out.
Yet the impulse to see migrants as chiefly a burden is profoundly mistaken. The answer to these familiar fears is not to put up more barriers, but to manage the pressures and the risks to ensure that migration improves the lives of both immigrants and their hosts. The starting point is a sense of perspective.
Germany's Willkommenskultur is right morally, economically and politically. It sets an example to the world. ... Helping Syrians is a clear moral duty. That responsibility falls not on Europe alone, but the world as a whole. It needs a coordinated policy to manage the Syrian crisis along the entire chain of displacement. There must be a concerted effort to contain the war, starting with the creation of protected havens. ...
Refugees are intertwined with economic migrants. They get on the same boats and resentment of migrants erodes support for refugees. How, then, to deal with those who want a better life rather than a safer one? ...
There are surely limits to how many migrants any society will accept. But the numbers Europe proposes to receive do not begin to breach them. The boundaries of social tolerance are fuzzy. They change with time and circumstance and leadership. Willkommenskultur shows that the people of Europe are more welcoming than their nervous politicians assume. The politics of fear can be trumped by the politics of dignity. Mrs. Merkel understood this; so should the rest of the world.
From Michael Rubin, at Commentary: Ideological extremism is driving the crisis.
Compassion is a noble European and American trait but, without context, it is shortsighted. ...
Angela Merkel may talk about absorbing 500,000 plus Middle Eastern migrants each year, and Obama may wish to absorb thousands more. There has been some discussion about the failure of the Gulf Arab states to pull their weight, and surprisingly little discussion about why China and Russia should absolve themselves, as usual, of providing humanitarian relief. While it might feel liberal and nice to welcome refugees with open arms, it can be counterproductive in the long-term.
The problem isn't simply the question about whether new refugees accept broader American or European values, or whether they seek opportunity without compromising culture and assimilating into the rule-of-law. Nor is the main problem that a willingness to embrace migrants encourages a brain drain which ultimately makes Syria, Libya, Iraq and Kurdistan more difficult to stabilize and rebuild. Rather, while embracing and welcoming refugees make governments feel good, statecraft shouldn't simply be social work. The refugees are the symptom. The disease, as in World War II, was ideological extremism. Until the United States and Europe craft a policy to deal with the cause of the refugee flight, they are only welcoming discord at home and more tragedy abroad.
From Patrick Weil, at AlJazeera America: There is world precedent for helping the refugees.
In order to put an end to the ongoing tragedy in the Mediterranean, a global international response is necessary. The first priority should be a coordinated resettlement effort.
Two iconic precedents come to mind for this sort of action. First, in response to the Nazi persecution of the European Jews, Franklin D. Roosevelt convened a multilateral conference in July 1938 in vian, France. However, it went down in history as an enormous failure: With the United States and Britain refusing to take in substantial numbers of Jews, the attendees' initial commitment to resettle refugees proved hollow.
Multilateral burden-sharing negotiations re-emerged in the late 1970s in response to the exodus of people fleeing Vietnam during the war. When the North Vietnamese took control of the South, thousands of people escaped into the South China Sea in boats, and, as in the Mediterranean today, enormous numbers of them never arrived at any destination. It was clear that without real solutions to help those whose lives were destroyed, boat departures would continue, so in 1979, governments came together in Geneva at the United Nations to negotiate the Orderly Departure Program, which aimed to provide a framework for resettlement.
Thanks to the Orderly Departure Program and a number of similar resettlement programs, almost 2 million visas were granted to Southeast Asian displaced people from 1975 to 1997. The most were resettled to the United States, which took in 1.3 million individuals, but it was by no means an exclusively American effort. ...
There are many reasons for the disintegration of Iraq, Syria, Libya and now Yemen, and no single grand narrative can capture the entire picture. But the very least we can do is agree that Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, which have taken in millions of refugees, are not to blame.
We cannot ignore the decisive role that the United States and its allies played in bringing about the current refugee crisis. This role began immediately after 9 /11, with the invasion of Iraq. The more recent intervention in Libya further contributed to the disaster.
From the editors of The Nation: This may be the new world order.
This is not a problem for Europe to solve alone. The Syrian civil war has displaced more than 4 million people, most of them to other countries in the region - though conspicuously not to the Persian Gulf states or Saudi Arabia, friend to the West and armorer of Islamist fighters in Syria.
The rise of the Islamic State - now terrorizing Syria and Iraq and threatening neighboring countries - was sparked by the aftermath of the Iraq invasion and further fueled by the misguided tactics of the United States and Britain in Syria.
Yet the United States has accepted just 1,500 Syrian refugees since the civil war began. ...
Meanwhile, the people keep coming, and will continue to risk their lives to come.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

181 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

July 1, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.N. learns about refugees

BYLINE: Lee Michael Katz; Wendy Benedetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 249 words

 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, says she learned a lot about how to deal with refugee problems from the Persian Gulf war.
Ogata, who met with President Bush last week to discuss the status of Iraqi civilians, says the commission will use this newfound knowledge to tackle other refugee problems around the world. 
''We are the ones who experienced it. We know where the weaknesses are and where to go for assistance. If we build up fast, we can manage (the Iraqi situation .''
Ogata says the commission's 1991 budget is $ 800 million. These volunteered funds go toward handling refugee problems around the world.
Ogata says the commission must raise all of the $ 800 million to be able to manage its agenda. So far, about $ 550 million has been donated, which is almost as much as last year's budget, she says. Iraq's refugee problem alone will cost about $ 267 million this year.
According to the commission, the refugee problem isn't unique to the Middle East but is a growing problem around the world.
- Asia: 6.7 million (China, 280,500; Thailand, 99,900; Hong Kong, 49,500)
- Africa: 4.6 million (Malawi, 822,500; Sudan, 767,700; Ethiopia, 710,200)
- North America: 1.4 million (USA, 1 million; Canada, 447,200)
- Latin America: 1.2 million (Mexico, 356,400; Costa Rica, 278,600; Honduras, 237,100; Guatemala, 223,100)
- Europe: 828,487 (France, 194,900; Federal Rep. of Germany, 150,700; Sweden, 139,800; United Kingdom, 100,000)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Inquiry

See main story; War's other victims; Iraq's children

Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.

182 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 21, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Remarks by President Obama at Leaders Summit on Refugees

LENGTH: 2359  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: White House Administration has issued the following news release:

  

 Thank you.  (Applause.)  Yusra, we could not be prouder of you -- not just for the great introduction, but more importantly, for your courage and your resilience and the great example that you're setting for children everywhere, including your eight-year-old sister, who I know must look up to you.  (Applause.)   


 

 Good afternoon.  Mr. Secretary General; Your Excellencies, we are here because, right now, in crowded camps and cities around the world, there are families -- from Darfur in Chad, Palestinians in Lebanon, Afghans in Pakistan, Colombians in Ecuador -- who've endured years -- in some cases, decades -- as refugees, surviving on rations and aid, and who dream of someday, somehow, having a home of their own.

 

 We're here because, right now, there are young girls -- like Yusra, like my daughters -- who are just as precious and just as gifted -- like the 16-year-old refugee from Myanmar that I met in Malaysia -- who've suffered unspeakable abuse at the hands of traffickers, modern day slavery, girls who pray at night that someone might rescue them from their torment.  There are boys, fleeing the fighting in South Sudan, violence in Central America, wars in North Africa and the Middle East -- who are at the mercy of criminals who pack them into trucks or makeshift rafts, and who die on treacherous seas -- like little Alan Kurdi from Syria, lifeless, face down on a Turkish beach, in his red shirt and blue pants.   

 

 We are here because, right now, there are mothers separated from their children -- like the woman in a camp in Greece, who held on to her family photographs, heard her children cry on the phone, and who said "my breath is my children&hellip;every day I am dying 10, 20, 30 times."  We're here because there are fathers who simply want to build a new life and provide for their families -- like Refaai Hamo, from Syria, who lost his wife and daughter in the war, who we welcomed to America, and who says, "I still think I have a chance to make a difference in the world."

 

 Mr. Secretary General; heads of state and heads of government; distinguished guests; ladies and gentlemen:  As you saw in the video, we are facing a crisis of epic proportions.  More than 65 million people have been driven from their homes -- which is more than any time since the Second World War.  Among them are more than 21 million refugees who have fled their countries -- everything and everyone they've ever known, fleeing with a suitcase or the clothes on their back.

 

 And I'm here today -- I called this summit -- because this crisis is one of the most urgent tests of our time -- our capacity for collective action.  To test, first and foremost, our ability to end conflicts, because so many of the world's refugees come from just three countries ravaged by war -- Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia.

 

 And I said today to the General Assembly, the mentality that allows for violence with impunity is something we cannot excuse.  And collectively, we continue to make excuses.  It's not the subject of this summit, but we all know that what is happening in Syria, for example, is unacceptable.  And we are not as unified as we should be in pushing to make it stop.

 

 It's a test of our international system where all nations ought to share in our collective responsibilities, because the vast majority of refugees are hosted by just 10 countries who are bearing a very heavy burden -- among them Turkey, Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran, Ethiopia.  Countries that often have fewer resources than many of those who are doing little or nothing.  

 

 It is a crisis of our shared security.  Not because refugees are a threat.  Refugees, most of whom are women and children, are often fleeing war and terrorism.  They are victims.  They're families who want to be safe and to work, be good citizens and contribute to their country -- I was talking to Yusra -- she's now in Germany.  She already speaks some English.  Now she's trying to learn German -- who are interested in assimilating and contributing to the society in which they find themselves.   

 

 In recent years, in the United States, we've worked to put in intensive screening and security checks, so we can welcome refugees and ensure our security -- in fact, refugees are subject to more rigorous screening than the average tourist.  We've seen in America, hardworking, patriotic refugees serve in our military, and start new businesses and help revitalize communities.  I believe refugees can make us stronger.

 

 So the challenge to our security is because when desperate refugees pay cold-hearted traffickers for passage, it funds the same criminals who are smuggling arms and drugs and children.  When nations with their own internal difficulties find themselves hosting massive refugee populations for years on end, it can risk more instability.  It oftentimes surfaces tensions in our society when we have disorderly and disproportionate migration into some countries that skews our politics and is subject to demagoguery.

 

 And if we were to turn refugees away simply because of their background or religion, or, for example, because they are Muslim, then we would be reinforcing terrorist propaganda that nations like my own are somehow opposed to Islam, which is an ugly lie that must be rejected in all of our countries by upholding the values of pluralism and diversity.

 

 And finally, this crisis is a test of our common humanity -- whether we give in to suspicion and fear and build walls, or whether we see ourselves in another.  Those girls being trafficked and tortured, they could be our daughters.  That little boy on the beach could be our son or our grandson.  We cannot avert our eyes or turn our backs.  To slam the door in the face of these families would betray our deepest values.  It would deny our own heritage as nations, including the United States of America, that have been built by immigrants and refugees.  And it would be to ignore a teaching at the heart of so many faiths that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us; that we welcome the stranger in our midst.  And just as failure to act in the past -- for example, by turning away Jews fleeing Nazi Germany -- is a stain on our collective conscience, I believe history will judge us harshly if we do not rise to this moment.

 

 First and foremost, we must recognize that refugees are a symptom of larger failures -- be it war, ethnic tensions, or persecution.  If we truly want to address the crisis, wars like the savagery in Syria must be brought to an end -- and it will be brought to an end through political settlement and diplomacy, and not simply by bombing.  

 

 We have to insist on greater investments in development and education and democratic institutions -- the lack of which fuels so much of the instability we see in the world.  And we need to continue to speak up for justice and equality, and insist that the universal human rights of every person are upheld, everywhere.

 

 In the face of this crisis, with what often seems grim news, we are grateful for the heroic work of so many around the world. Leaders who, often in the face of difficult politics at home, welcome refugees as new neighbors.  Businesses, such as those I met with right before I came here, which had made commitments worth more than $650 million to empower refugees.  International institutions and faith groups and NGOs, including InterAction -- the alliance of American NGOs -- whose members will invest more than $1.2 billion over the next three years to assist the world's displaced people and refugees.  

 

 As Americans, we're determined to do our part.  The United Nations [United States] is the largest single donor of humanitarian aid around the world, including to refugees and to the people of Syria.  We resettle more refugees than any other nation.  As President, I've increased the number of refugees we are resettling to 85,000 this year, which includes 10,000 Syrian refugees -- a goal we've exceeded even as we've upheld our rigorous screening.  And I called for this summit because we all have to do more.  

 

 I want to thank our co-hosts, Secretary General Ban, and Jordan.  Obviously, Jordan is carrying an enormous burden as a consequence of the conflict, and we are grateful for His Majesty and the work that they've done.  Mexico, which is absorbing a great number of refugees from Central America.  Sweden, which has made enormous humanitarian contributions in addition to taking on refugees.  Germany and Canada -- two countries that have gone above and beyond in providing support for refugees.  And I want to personally thank Chancellor Merkel and Prime Minister Trudeau, and the people of both those countries -- because the politics sometimes can be hard, but it's the right thing to do.  And Ethiopia, which as was noted in the video, bears an enormous burden.

 

 I also want to thank the more than 50 nations and organizations participating in this summit for making tangible, concrete commitments.  Collectively, our nations have increased our contributions to humanitarian organizations and U.N. appeals this year by some $4.5 billion, and that includes a $1 billion increase this year from the United States.  This will translate concretely into lifesaving food, and medicine, and clothing, and shelter.  

 

 But since we can't just keep on doing the same thing the same way -- allowing refugees to languish in camps, disconnected from society -- we've also been working with the World Bank to create new financing facilities to assist countries hosting refugees build schools and economic opportunities.  As part of these efforts, the United States will contribute at least $50 million to help middle-income countries, and we'll do more to help low-income countries so that refugees and their host communities can flourish and grow stronger together.  The refugees in places like Ecuador or Kenya don't always get as much attention as some of the recent migrations, but they need help too.  And that's part of our goal here.

 

 Collectively, our nations are roughly doubling the number of refugees that we admit to our countries to more than 360,000 this year.  Again, I want to especially commend Germany, Canada, Austria, the Netherlands and Australia for their continued leadership, as well countries like Argentina and Portugal for their new commitments.  And today, I'm proud to announce that the United States will continue our leadership role.  In the coming fiscal year, starting next week, the United States will welcome and resettle 110,000 refugees from around the world -- which is a nearly 60 percent increase over 2015.  We intend to do it right, and we will do it safely.  

 

 Collectively, the major commitments by Turkey, Thailand, Chad and Jordan will help more than one million children who are refugees get an education; will help one million refugees get training, new skills or find a job.  And in all of this work, we cannot forget those who are often the most vulnerable to abuse -- young girls and women.  So a key part of our efforts must be a renewed commitment to stopping sexual violence and forced marriage.  And we need to do more to truly empower women and girls -- because every girl deserves the chance to grow and be safe, and every woman should have her human rights and dignity upheld.

 

 So I'm heartened by the commitments that have been made here today.  They will help save lives.  But we're going to have to be honest -- it's still not enough; not sufficient for a crisis of this magnitude.  And that's why I believe this summit must be the beginning of a new global movement where everybody does more:    More nations donating more assistance and accepting more refugees.  More institutions and NGOs finding new ways to deliver aid.  More businesses contributing their expertise.  More faith groups making this work their own.  More young people demanding action.  More states and cities and towns coming forward and saying, yes, we will open our communities to our fellow human beings in need.  And more pressure on those countries that are willing to perpetrate violence on their own citizens in pursuit of power that carries such a heavy human toll.

 

 We can learn from a young boy named Alex, who lives not far from here in Scarsdale, New York.  Last month, like all of us, Alex saw that heartbreaking image -- five-year-old Omran Daqneesh in Aleppo, Syria, sitting in that ambulance, silent and in shock, trying to wipe the blood from his hands.  

 

 And here in New York, Alex, who is just six years old, sat down and wrote me a letter.  And he said, he wanted Omran to come live with him and his family.  "Since he won't bring toys," Alex wrote, "I will share my bike and I will teach him how to ride it.  I will teach him addition and subtraction.  My little sister will be collecting butterflies and fireflies for him&hellip;We can all play together.  We will give him a family and he will be our brother."  

 

 Those are the words of a six-year-old boy.  He teaches us a lot.  (Applause.)  

 

 The humanity that a young child can display, who hasn't learned to be cynical, or suspicious, or fearful of other people because of where they're from, or how they look, or how they pray, and who just understands the notion of treating somebody that is like him with compassion, with kindness -- we can all learn from Alex.  Imagine the suffering we could ease, and the lives we could save, and what our world would look like if, seeing a child who's hurting anywhere in the world, we say, "We will give him a family and he will be our brother."

 

 We spend, so many of us in politics and in leadership, so much time devoted to ascending the ladders of power.  We spend time maintaining it; we spend time trying to win over public opinion.  And maybe sometimes we forget that the only rationale for doing it is to help that little boy.  I hope and pray that we remember.  

 

 I appreciate all of your support.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

 

 END               

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

  

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

184 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

February 13, 2017 Monday

Lawyers call for changes to Safe Third Country Agreement

SECTION: Pg. B4

LENGTH: 660 words

Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in the U.S. hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that makes it nearly impossible.
The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives in the other country.
The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far refused. 
Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake. He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the last week - some of whom crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could make their refugee claims once already in the country.
It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.
Clarke said it's putting people at risk.
"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the wind chill factors, it's highly risky."
He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada later on.
He said the agreement should either be "repealed, amended or suspended."
"The refugees who are coming into Canada do not feel safe in the United States," he said.
The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said the government wouldn't suspend the agreement.
"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the American asylum system,'' said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.
Caron said the agreement is focused on how to handle people who show up at either land border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by Trump's edict. Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of any executive orders, she added.
Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the U.S.
"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instills an enormous amount of fear in people. An enormous amount of insecurity," he said.
Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's heard from people other than those who would have been affected by the executive order.
"It's not as simple as, 'I'm a new refugee to America and I want to come to Canada.' There is such a group, but there's another group of people who arrived in America from very difficult situations years ago, who now have lives in America," he said.
He said he's received calls from people who were originally from Mexico, Central America, South America and Africa. It's not just claimants from Muslim-majority countries.
"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they will get a fair hearing. And there has been a noticeable increase in these types of calls since the executive orders took place."
Suleman said his responses to callers vary case-by-case, but he said he has to warn them about the Safe Third Country Agreement.
"I think the Canadian government should seriously explore if the Safe Third Country Agreement is a viable option," he said. "Increasingly this problem is going to be on the front pages, and I think our government needs to look at some sort of humanitarian response."
Trump's executive order was suspended by a judge pending a legal challenge in the U.S. courts. !@COPYRIGHT= 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

187 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

November 16, 2011 Wednesday 
Correction Appended  
Late Edition - Final

A Family Escapes Refugee Camps in Africa and Finds Itself in Debt in America

BYLINE: By MARVIN ANDERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1526 words

Ndayishimiye Gabo sat motionless in a damp Bronx apartment with peeling wallpaper, leaking faucets and dilapidated floors, staring at an eviction notice in one hand and a court order in the other.
After years of living in a refugee camp in his native country, Tanzania, Mr. Gabo thought his perpetual displacement and fear had come to an end after his young family was granted asylum in the United States.
But here he was, on the verge of losing the only sanctuary he and his family have known since coming to America as refugees in 2007. A judge has given him until Saturday to pay nearly $6,000 in back rent, or be evicted.
''We came here thinking all of our dreams would come true,'' Mr. Gabo said, ''but I find that a contradiction. Where can we find peace?'' 
Mr. Gabo, 31, was born in Tanzania, after his father, a Hutu, and his mother, a Tutsi, fled in 1972 to that neighboring country from their native Burundi, in East Africa, where brutal ethnic wars between Hutus and Tutsis had erupted. United Nations officials reported that more than 200,000 people died in the genocide the Tutsis waged against the Hutus. (A conflict between the two groups also resulted in the Rwandan genocide, in 1994.)
His parents ended up in a Tanzanian refugee camp, where Mr. Gabo was born. The family returned to Burundi in 1991, but tensions between the two ethnic groups flared again, Mr. Gabo said. In 1999, while he was at a school in the coastal town of Rumonge in Burundi, his mother died in a bombing in the nearby city where she worked, he said.
''She was everything to me,'' Mr. Gabo said. ''I'm missing something now.''
His father and siblings were forced into a displacement camp in Burundi in 2000, but Mr. Gabo fled east, to Tanzania. He initially lived with his father's sister, a Burundian, but Tanzanian government officials forced them into a refugee camp, he said.
''I was born there, but I wasn't considered Tanzanian because my parents were born in Burundi,'' he said. ''I felt like I didn't belong anywhere.''
He and his aunt were placed in a camp of 1,600 people living in mud houses with grass rooftops. Mr. Gabo, who had studied math and physics, became a teacher's assistant in the camp, which teemed with a panoply of diverse groups, including Arabs, Congolese and Ethiopians. (Later, he said, when he came to New York, the diversity in the city reminded him of the camp's.)
Mr. Gabo met Niyonsaba Francine, a Burundian, in the camp in 2003, and they married the next year. Two of their children, Shima Don Chris, now 6, and Joyce Niyubuntu, now 4, were born there. (In Burundian culture, children might not share a surname with either parent.) But the lives of Mr. Gabo and his family changed when they were given refugee status to resettle in the United States, under an American initiative to aid Burundians displaced in Tanzania during the war. The family arrived in New York in 2007 and began eking out a living.
With the aid of public assistance, Mr. Gabo and his family moved into a one-bedroom apartment in the Wakefield section of the Bronx. They received food stamps and got help with day care. Ms. Francine, who speaks only Swahili and Kirundi began English-language classes. Soon, another child was born: Angel Gabo, now 10 months old.
Mr. Gabo, who began working as a forklift operator soon after he arrived in the city, left that job to become a teaching assistant in a G.E.D. program through the city's Human Resources Administration. He worked 35 hours a week and received medical benefits and food stamps, in addition to $180 a month, but he said it was not nearly enough to meet his family's needs.
''I helped people with their dreams when I couldn't live mine,'' he said. ''I need education to support my family.''
Mr. Gabo decided to attend the Technical Career Institute in Manhattan to pursue a degree in electronic engineering. But his class schedule was so demanding, he said, that this year, when he missed a recertification interview to renew his family's benefits, the Human Resources Administration cut off rental assistance, plunging the family into debt. The family fell several months behind in rent, which was $1,021 a month. Then, because of an overdue electricity bill, which totaled $794 in September, Consolidated Edison threatened to shut off the family's power, he said.
Desperate for help, Ms. Francine, 28, found Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York after searching online, talking to friends and walking into agencies' offices. With the help of a case manager, the family had a hearing in May before the city's Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings, which ruled that all of the benefits should be reinstated, Mr. Gabo said. But the family was still waiting six months later for the full restoration of its benefits, he said, adding that all his family was now receiving were medical benefits and food stamps.
''They want us to eat, but they don't want us to stay in this house,'' Mr. Gabo said. ''They don't care about my family.''
An H.R.A. spokeswoman, Carmen Boon, said she was prohibited from discussing specific cases because of privacy laws and could not comment on why the family was not receiving all of its reinstated benefits.
Mirela Jaubelli, the family's case manager at Catholic Charities, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, used $450 from the fund to help the family pay its electric bill and drew $237 from the fund to buy the family MetroCards to travel to meetings with the H.R.A. She said she had expected the family's public assistance to kick in again well before Nov. 1, and that ''only bureaucracy'' was keeping the family from getting back its rental assistance.
While the family remains in limbo, Mr. Gabo said he remained hopeful. He said that Shima, whose name means ''Thank you, God,'' was attending Public School 103, and that the priority now was not only education, but also reuniting with family members still in Tanzanian camps.
''One day I'll get a chance to forget the tears which come from me,'' Mr. Gabo said. ''I'll live my dream.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2011


CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Nov. 16 about a family of African immigrants that faced eviction from their home in the Bronx and received help from Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, a beneficiary of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, described incorrectly Kirundi, which one of the immigrants speaks. Kirundi is its own language, not a ''Burundian dialect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Niyonsaba Francine, her husband, Ndayishimiye Gabo, and their three children, Angel Gabo, 10 months, Shima Don Chris, 6, and Joyce Niyubuntu, 4, in their shared bedroom in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC                                                                            

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company

192 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 3, 2017 Friday  
Late Edition - Final

A Refugee Policy Based on Facts, Not Fear

BYLINE: By ANGELINA JOLIE. 
Angelina Jolie, a filmmaker, is the special envoy of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 977 words

Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of terrorism themselves.
I'm proud of our country's history of giving shelter to the most vulnerable people. Americans have shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend culture, geography, ethnicity and religion. The decision to suspend the resettlement of refugees to the United States and deny entry to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our friends around the world precisely because of this record. 
  The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities. But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear. 
  As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee children who qualify for asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a compassionate America. And that we can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire countries -- even babies -- as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of geography or religion.
  It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or that refugees are admitted to the United States without close scrutiny.
  Refugees are in fact subject to the highest level of screening of any category of traveler to the United States. This includes months of interviews, and security checks carried out by the F.B.I., the National Counterterrorism Center, the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department.
  Furthermore, only the most vulnerable people are put forward for resettlement in the first place: survivors of torture, and women and children at risk or who might not survive without urgent, specialized medical assistance. I have visited countless camps and cities where hundreds of thousands of refugees are barely surviving and every family has suffered. When the United Nations Refugee Agency identifies those among them who are most in need of protection, we can be sure that they deserve the safety, shelter and fresh start that countries like ours can offer.
  And in fact only a minuscule fraction -- less than 1 percent -- of all refugees in the world are ever resettled in the United States or any other country. There are more than 65 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. Nine out of 10 refugees live in poor and middle-income countries, not in rich Western nations. There are 2.8 million Syrian refugees in Turkey alone. Only about 18,000 Syrians have been resettled in America since 2011.
  This disparity points to another, more sobering reality. If we send a message that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to discriminate among them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire. We are lighting a fuse that will burn across continents, inviting the very instability we seek to protect ourselves against.
  We are already living through the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with refugees. For generations American diplomats have joined the United Nations in urging those countries to keep their borders open, and to uphold international standards on the treatment of refugees. Many do just that with exemplary generosity.
  What will be our response if other countries use national security as an excuse to start turning people away, or deny rights on the basis of religion? What could this mean for the Rohingya from Myanmar, or for Somali refugees, or millions of other displaced people who happen to be Muslim? And what does this do to the absolute prohibition in international law against discrimination on the grounds of faith or religion?
  The truth is that even if the numbers of refugees we take in are small, and we do the bare minimum, we do it to uphold the United Nations conventions and standards we fought so hard to build after World War II, for the sake of our own security.
  If we Americans say that these obligations are no longer important, we risk a free-for-all in which even more refugees are denied a home, guaranteeing more instability, hatred and violence.
  If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are less worthy of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine the ideal of diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike: ''America is committed to the world because so much of the world is inside America,'' in the words of Ronald Reagan. If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.
  The lesson of the years we have spent fighting terrorism since Sept. 11 is that every time we depart from our values we worsen the very problem we are trying to contain. We must never allow our values to become the collateral damage of a search for greater security. Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating among them is not our way, and does not make us safer. Acting out of fear is not our way. Targeting the weakest does not show strength.
  We all want to keep our country safe. So we must look to the sources of the terrorist threat -- to the conflicts that give space and oxygen to groups like the Islamic State, and the despair and lawlessness on which they feed. We have to make common cause with people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same threat and seeking the same security. This is where I would hope any president of our great nation would lead on behalf of all Americans.
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/02/opinion/angelina-jolie-refugee-policy-should-be-based-on-facts-not-fear.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY)       

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company

193 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

August 5, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

The new world

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 326 words

IMMIGRATION
ANYONE BEMOANING America's place in the world or despondent that poverty's crushing heel has denied him a high-definition wide-screen plasma TV, should review Post-Dispatch reporter Eun-Kyung Kim's account Tuesday of Aden Kabir's first days in the United States. Mr. Kabir is a Somali refugee who was resettled in St. Louis last month along with his wife and four children. Ms. Kim accompanied him and a caseworker from the International Institute as he made his first trip to an American supermarket, a Shop 'N Save on Gravois Avenue.
"I have to speak the truth," he told her later. "I have never seen anything as good as that." 
Twenty-four hours earlier, Mr. Kabir had left a refugee camp in Kenya where he had lived for 11 years. As a Bantu tribesman from eastern Africa whose ancestors had been kidnapped into Somali slavery in the 19th century, Mr. Kabir had been an outcast in his own land.
He lost his farm and a son to the gruesome Somali civil war of the late 1980s and early 1990s and fled hundreds of miles across the border to Kenya.
The refugee camp there was small improvement, a place where rape and other forms of violence were common, a place where such food as there was was cooked over open fires.
With the intervention of the U.S. government and the help of the International Institute, the Kabir family was flown around the world and was plunked down in a South St. Louis apartment, a place with a microwave oven and a refrigerator they could stock with the unimaginable bounty of Shop 'N Save.
For the first time in their lives, the Kabir family had walls around them. They had electricity and hot and cold running water, and the water was clean. They had toilets instead of pit trenches, mattresses with sheets and blankets instead of beds of husks and twigs.
It must have seemed like a miracle, and indeed it is. Sometimes it helps to be reminded of the miracle that is the United States of America.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: editorial

Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

194 of 996 DOCUMENTS


thespec.com

February 12, 2017 Sunday

Lawyers call for changes to Safe Third Country Agreement amid influx of refugees

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 652 words

Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in the U.S. hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that makes it nearly impossible.
The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives in the other country.
The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far refused. 
Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake. He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the last week - some of whom crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could make their refugee claims once already in the country.
It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.
Clarke said it's putting people at risk.
"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the wind chill factors, it's highly risky."
He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada later on.
He said the agreement should either be "repealed, amended or suspended."
"The refugees who are coming into Canada do not feel safe in the United States," he said.
The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said the government wouldn't suspend the agreement.
"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the American asylum system," said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.
Caron said the agreement is focused on how to handle people who show up at either land border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by Trump's edict. Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of any executive orders, she added.
Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the U.S.
"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instills an enormous amount of fear in people. An enormous amount of insecurity," he said.
Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's heard from people other than those who would have been affected by the executive order.
"It's not as simple as, 'I'm a new refugee to America and I want to come to Canada.' There is such a group, but there's another group of people who arrived in America from very difficult situations years ago, who now have lives in America," he said.
He said he's received calls from people who were originally from Mexico, Central America, South America and Africa. It's not just claimants from Muslim-majority countries.
"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they will get a fair hearing. And there has been a noticeable increase in these types of calls since the executive orders took place."
Suleman said his responses to callers vary case-by-case, but he said he has to warn them about the Safe Third Country Agreement.
"I think the Canadian government should seriously explore if the Safe Third Country Agreement is a viable option," he said. "Increasingly this problem is going to be on the front pages, and I think our government needs to look at some sort of humanitarian response."
Trump's executive order was suspended by a judge pending a legal challenge in the U.S. courts.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

195 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 1, 2018 Thursday

Washington: Amid President Trump's Divisive Rhetoric & Actions Regarding Immigrants and Refugees, Senators Murray, Cantwell Introduce Resolution Reaffirming Nation's Commitment and Proud History of Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 448  words


Washington: Office of the Senator Patty Murray has issued the following news release:

Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined nine Democrats to introduce a resolution affirming the United States' commitment to welcoming refugees from around the world, and calling on the Trump Administration to resettle more refugees in the United States. In the last 40 years, the United States resettled 80,000 refugees per year on average, but during his first year in office, President Trump's Administration nearly halved the number to 45,000--the lowest refugee admissions ceiling ever set.   

Since then, the Trump Administration has further hindered the country's capacity to accept refugees and other immigrants, putting the United States Refugee Admissions Program on pace to only admit between 15,000-20,000 refugees this year. Decreasing the number of refugees in the United States would have a direct impact on Washington state, where studies show refugees acclimate quickly to local communities and make significant contributions to the economy and tax revenue: according to a recent report, Washington state is among the top six states for refugee contributions, generating approximately $242 million in state and local tax revenue and more than $2.1 billion in spending power.  
"Time and again President Trump has doubled down on his divisive rhetoric about refugees with policies that undermine critical humanitarian efforts and ignore the United States' role as a world leader," said Senator Murray. "Our country has long stood as a symbol of hope and security for people around the world fleeing persecution from religious, political, ethnic and gender-based oppression and violence, and turning our backs on our global neighbors during one of the worst refugee crises in recent history flies in the face of who we are as a nation. I will continue working with my colleagues in the United States Senate to ensure that the front door of our nation remains open for any and all who are fleeing horrific violence and seeking to build a life in safety here in the United States--and urge President Trump to reverse his dangerous vision for America's future."    
A report from the New American Economy estimates that approximately 80,000 refugees currently reside in Washington state. Senators Murray and Cantwell have been vocal opponents of President Trump's reckless targeting of individuals on the basis of religion or nationality, and in March 2017 introduced legislation to reverse President Trump's reissued executive order restricting refugees and travelers from six Muslim-majority nations in Africa and the Middle East from traveling to the United States. 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

197 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 19, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Families Fall Apart On Road to Rwanda; Thousands of Children Find Themselves Alone After Walk That Was Supposed to Lead Home

Stephen Buckley, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: GISENYI, Rwanda, Nov. 18

 
As they hustled to escape the world's largest refugee camp last week, thousands of Rwandans left behind some of their most important possessions: their children.
Some youngsters got separated from loved ones during the weeks when as many as 500,000 Rwandan refugees were crushed into Mugunga camp in eastern Zaire, roughly 10 miles west of this border town. Others vanished on Friday when the refugees, tired of two years in exile and two weeks caught between warring militias, began walking to the Rwandan border.
"We left Mugunga during the evening, after the fighting," Immaculae Hatungakana, 46. "We were walking together, and then I turned around and he was gone. Since then, I have been calling his name over and over on the road." 
The boy, 7, has not answered. He may be among the nearly 2,000 children who have passed through the transit center for unaccompanied youngsters and infants at the border. Or he may not.
Aid workers said that figure was lower than expected for such an exodus, but they stressed that they believe thousands more children are still on the Zairian side of the border. No one knows precisely how many children were in the refugee camps in eastern Zaire that for two years held about 1.1 million refugees.
Most of the refugees were members of Rwanda's Hutu ethnic majority who fled in 1994 when a Tutsi-led rebel force took power from a militant Hutu government that had slaughtered at least 500,000 Tutsis in a matter of weeks.
About 750,000 Hutus settled in camps around this town, but fighting between Zairian troops and a Zairian rebel force -- led by Tutsis and backed by Rwanda's Tutsi-led government -- cleared all of the camps except one, Mugunga. The half-million refugees there were under the sway of former government and military leaders who intimidated anyone seeking to return to Rwanda -- until Friday, when continued fighting drove the Hutu militants deeper into Zaire and the refugees headed the other way.
Relief officials said some children returned to Rwanda alone after losing their parents when fighting broke out in other camps before refugees began crowding into Mugunga. The children made it to Mugunga, then came into Rwanda with the rest of the refugees this past weekend.
Claver Ntuyenabo, 45, said he became separated from his three daughters and two sons while they were hiding in a forest after fighting broke out in their refugee camp three weeks ago.
Ntuyenabo, who crossed into Rwanda alone on Saturday, said his family had left him in the forest because "I was very weak, and I was sick. I told them to wait for me at a particular point. I never saw them. I continued alone to Mugunga. Then I came to Rwanda."
Relief workers said such accounts are not uncommon among the unaccompanied children they have seen since Friday. But most frequently, they said, children got separated from their parents during the trip from Mugunga.
During their trek to Rwanda, the refugees packed the road to the border. Fathers hefted children onto their shoulders. Mothers strapped babies to their backs, and youngsters clung to their skirts, half-running with awkward, choppy strides.
But many children, jugs of water or small sacks on their heads, could not keep up with their families. At times the crush of moving people became especially chaotic. The air was thick with sweat. Couples argued. Children bawled.
"Children, hold on to your parents!" aid workers shouted continually through megaphones as refugees passed the border. "Parents, hold on to your children!"
Many tried but could not.
"It was easy to lose two or three children," said Mike McDonagh, emergency coordinator for the Concern relief group. "I walked in the middle of those refugees, and it was dark and confusing."
The lost children who are now in the care of aid workers appear stunned. Many are exhausted, having walked for as long as three weeks with little food or water. They do not move. They do not speak.
Infants and toddlers, meanwhile, often appear oblivious to their plight. In a room at the transit center for unaccompanied children, they screamed, sucked their fingers, eyed strangers with curiosity and slept.
A girl, about a year old, eagerly took porridge from a relief worker, who gently wiped the child's lips after every spoonful. The girl's mother died on Sunday.
Aid workers say that cases involving such small children are especially tough because the youngsters cannot provide information that could help relief agencies reunite them with parents or relatives.
"They can't tell you their parents' names or which commune they're from," said Charlie Main, an emergency officer with UNICEF.
Relief groups can do little more than take pictures of the youngest children and distribute them. Older ones do provide crucial information, which aid groups -- primarily Save the Children, the International Committee of the Red Cross and Concern -- then distribute in the child's home community, hoping that someone who knows the boy or girl will see it.
Some unaccompanied children are intentionally left behind. Many youngsters who were separated from their parents as long ago as the 1994 exodus to eastern Zaire were taken in by strangers. Upon returning to Rwanda, those strangers sometimes "no longer see the child as a priority," said Mary Dunne, a Concern nurse.
Among all the trauma that marked the trek into Rwanda, some stories had happy endings. Today, Ndwi Mukanya, 22, sat by the road several hundred yards after crossing into Rwanda with her 3-day-old baby.
The baby, late afternoon sun glistening off its black curls, reared its head back and howled, repeatedly clenching its tiny, wrinkly fingers. Mukanya said she had walked several miles into her homeland after giving birth to the girl, who does not yet have a name.
Mukanya, who said her ordeal left her with an aching back, pressed out a weak smile. "In all of this trouble," she said, "I am happy."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, HOW TO HELP THE REFUGEES American Red Cross ARC International Response Fund P.O. Box 37243 Washington, D.C. 20013 (800) HELP NOW (English) (800) 257-7575 (Spanish) CARE Central Africa Crisis Response 151 Ellis St., NE Atlanta, Ga. 30303-2439 (800) 521-CARE OXFAM America 26 West St.  Boston, Mass. 02111 (800) OXFAM US Save the Children Africa Emergency P.O. 975R Westport, Conn. 06881 (203) 221-4130 Salvation Army World Service 615 Slaters Lane P.O. Box 269 Alexandria, Va. 22313 (703) 684-5528 Doctors Without Borders 11 E. 16th St., 19th Floor New York, N.Y. 10010 (212) 679-6800 U.S. Committee for UNICEF Zaire Emergency Relief 333 E. 38th St.  New York, N.Y. 10016 (212) 686-5522 World Vision Africa Great Lakes Relief P.O. Box 70005 Takoma, Wash. 98471-0005 (888) 511-6565 Rwandan refugees returning from Zaire push and carry their belongings along a road that links the border town of Gisenyi and Kigali, the capital of Rwanda.  Mary Dunne, a nurse with the Irish aid agency Concern, hugs one of nearly 2,000 children who returned from Zaire to Rwanda without an adult relative.  On His Own Separated from his parents during the long walk back to their home country, a frightened Rwandan refugee boy is one of nearly 2,000 children who have been processed at a center for lost youngsters at the Rwandan-Zairian border.  Rwandan children who have become separated from their families sit in a transit center on the border, waiting to be claimed or sent to their home villages, where they might find relatives.

Copyright 1996 The Washington Post

198 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 20, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE QUOTA IS CUT BY 14,700 FOR NEXT FISCAL YEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

The Carter Administration announced a reduction today in the number of refugees who may legally enter the United States next year, largely because of the recent heavy inflow of Cuban and Haitian refugees.
Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the new refugee quota would be 217,000, 14,700 fewer than this year. The cost of the refugee program for the fiscal year 1981, he said, will be $690 million. 
A report submitted to the committee by the State Department office for refugee affairs said that the influx of more than 122,000 Cubans and 6,000 Haitians had produced an ''extraordinary emergency'' in South Florida, requiring Federal aid to the state and local authorities.
Mr. Civiletti told the Senate panel that the United States was doing ''everything legally possible to reduce the entries,'' but he predicted that border violations would continue ''unless we want to become a police state.''
Under questioning from the committee members and its chairman, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, Mr. Civiletti and Victor H. Palmieri, the State Department coordinator for refugee affairs, described the efforts to halt the inflow of illegal entrants by military and judicial means.
The Attorney General said the Coast Guard had seized 1,400 small boats, but added that the passengers could not be forced to return in most cases because the vessels were not seaworthy.
He said that about 100 Cubans and Haitians were still arriving in Florida each day, despite Coast Guard efforts to halt the boats. At the height of the influx last spring there were 1,000 to 2,000 new arrivals each day.
The Justice Department has brought indictments against 270 persons for bringing illegal entrants from Cuba and Haiti to the United States, and is preparing 500 other cases for prosecution, Mr.  Civiletti said. The department is also investigating groups in Florida that have allegedly been organizing the boat trips for the illegal entrants.
 
168,000 Indochinese in 1981
Indochinese will make up the largest number of refugees under the quota system; 168,000 will be allowed in the United States in the fiscal year 1981. Mr. Civiletti said large numbers of Indochinese refugees in such countries as Thailand threatened the stability of American allies in Southeast Asia.
The breakdown for the coming fiscal year also includes 37,500 from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, 4,500 from the Near East and 3,000 from Africa. The biggest regional reduction came in Latin America, where the quota recommendation is 4,000, down from 20,500 this year.
Mr. Civiletti said the reduction ''reflects the massive influx of Cubans to the United States in contravention of both U.S. law and our guiding principle of orderly processing of refugee admissions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company

203 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

May 26, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ST. LOUIS MAY GET HUNDREDS OF REFUGEES FROM KOSOVO;
AREA IS MAJOR DESTINATION FOR FAMILIES, WITH FIRST ONES ARRIVING WITHIN DAYS

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 
St. Louis will be a major destination for Albanian Kosovar refugees streaming into the United States.
The lead private resettlement agency at Fort Dix, N.J., which houses about 4,000 refugees, said Tuesday that it had selected St. Louis as one of four host cities. The first families are expected to arrive in St. Louis within days, and the eventual number could reach into the hundreds.
The United States has agreed to take in a total of 20,000 ethnic Albanians, who have fled their homes in the Kosovo region of Yugoslavia because of the threat of violence from Serb soldiers or paramilitary police. Hundreds are arriving every few days at Fort Dix. 
"We picked several cities for the initial resettlement of refugees - Houston, Bridgeport (Conn.), Boston and St. Louis," Gabrielle Bushman, spokeswoman for the Immigration and Refugee Services of America, said in an interview Tuesday.
Those cities were chosen based on several factors, she said, including a stable job market, affordable housing, the presence of capable resettlement groups and enough native Albanian speakers to help the newcomers adapt.
St. Louis has roughly 100 native Albanians, most of whom arrived after Albania's hard-line communist government crumbled seven years ago and the country's borders opened. St. Louis' largest resettlement agency, the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, is the local affiliate of the Immigration and Refugee Services of America.
St. Louis has enough Albanians to offer translation services and other help but not such a large group as to impede absorption into the larger society, Bushman said. New York, which wasn't chosen as an initial site, has many thousands of Albanians and is more expensive, she said.
The U.S. Catholic Conference also disclosed Tuesday that it will begin sending refugees to St. Louis in the next few days.
The arrival of Albanian Kosovars will buttress St. Louis' standing of recent years as a key center for refugee resettlement, including thousands of Bosnians, Vietnamese and Russians, as well as smaller groups from Latin America, Africa, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Earlier this decade, the State Department and major private resettlement agencies quietly made St. Louis a "cluster site" for refugees, in part because of the lack of public animosity.
Albanian Kosovars began arriving on May 5 at Fort Dix, where they are receiving medical screening and are being processed by government officials. They are awaiting assignment to communities around the country by one of the nine private agencies that oversee refugee resettlement.
After a few departures from Fort Dix the past couple of weeks, the pace is now increasing, with departures Monday, Tuesday and today.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides grants to private agencies, which distribute the money to their local affiliates to help defray the cost of job training, language and other services provided the newcomers during a transition period.
The Immigration and Refugee Services of America, based in Washington, will handle about 2,000 of the refugees. It's already chosen four families consisting of 23 people to be resettled in St. Louis, with more families to come, Bushman said.
The International Institute said Tuesday that the arrival of Kosovar refugees in St. Louis was imminent and that the institute would have an announcement within a few days.
The largest of the nine private groups helping to settle refugees, the U.S. Catholic Conference in Washington, plans to place refugees in St. Louis as soon as this week.
Marie Quinlan, communications director for the conference's Migration and Refugees Services, said St. Louis is among 55 sites chosen for initial resettlement.
"We're expecting that we could initially place 30 refugees there, however that could increase," Quinlan said.
The conference's local affiliate in St. Louis is the Catholic Charities Refugee Services, which was unavailable for comment Tuesday.
St. Louis' third refugee resettlement agency is the Jewish Family & Children's Service, an affiliate of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society in New York. The national agency said that while no resettlement sites have been selected, the St. Louis group has expressed interest and will get strong consideration because of its track record.
Evelyn Young, coordinator of the Jewish resettlement program in St. Louis, said Tuesday: "Our board here has met, and it's been OK'd in principle to resettle Kosovar refugees when we're asked by our national agency. The Jewish community is certainly very sensitive to this particular group of refugees because it's so reminiscent of the Holocaust, people thrown out of their homes and the genocide that's happening because of who they are."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

206 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

December 28, 2004 Tuesday  
All Editions

A job for himself, an education for his children

BYLINE: Stacy St. Clair, Daily Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: SUBURBAN LIVING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 276 words

Dadiri Muya didn't ask for much when he came to the United States.
He wanted freedom. He wanted safety. And he wanted his children to attend school. 
Nearly one year after emigrating from Africa, he has realized all three dreams.
Muya, a Somali Bantu who comes from one of the world's most primitive and abused cultures, has quickly settled into his American life.
His progress has pleasantly surprised relief workers who anticipated a rough transition for him and the other 12,000 Bantu refugees expected to settle in the United States by next year.
"Dadiri is doing really, really well," Zahra Mohammed said. "I'm so proud of him."
Muya, whose homes had never had running water or electricity before coming to America, spent the last decade working as a messenger in a United Nations refugee camp in Kenya.
Shortly after arriving in America, he took a job washing dishes at Red Lobster. He uses the money to pay the rent and buy groceries for his family.
He also enrolled his children in the local elementary school and is an active participant in their schooling, Mohammed said.
Muya, 31, who is illiterate, believes education is the key to a his children's future. The thing he most requests from aid workers are books and learning aids for his children.
"Dadiri is very concerned about their schooling," Mohammed said. "He always wants to know how the children are doing. He wants them to succeed."
His success has made him a leader among other local Bantus, including his older brother and sister who moved to Wheaton several months before him and live in the same apartment complex.
"Dadiri is doing so well," Mohammed said. "He is an example for all the others."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Suburban Mosaic : A monthly look at our ever-changing melting pot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 Paddock Publications, Inc.

208 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 28, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. BACKS CANADA ON AIRLIFT TO FEED RWANDAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27

Forgoing the idea of an international military operation on the ground in Zaire and Rwanda, the United States today endorsed a proposal by Canada to deliver food to thousands of Rwandan refugees still in eastern Zaire by dropping it from the air, probably using an airport in neighboring Uganda.
But while agreeing to take part, the United States voiced a series of concerns that officials in the Clinton Administration insisted had to be addressed before the airdrops could begin, raising the possibility that even this more modest relief operation might not take place. 
 Those concerns include trying to insure that the planes making the airdrops are not fired upon, and securing the approval of the Government of Rwanda in particular, as well as that of rebel leaders in eastern Zaire. It was the rebels' military campaign that set off the refugee crisis on Zaire's border with Rwanda in October.
Today the Government of Rwanda, which now opposes any international military force on its territory as unnecessary, strongly criticized the new proposal. It objected to the plan to use the airport in Entebbe, Uganda, as a base for the airdrops and reiterated that estimates of the number of Rwandans still in Zaire were exaggerated.
The new mission was proposed on Tuesday by Canadian officials frustrated by a fraying international consensus on the need for a relief mission. It reflected another significant scaling back of the multinational operation to aid the Rwandan refugees and encourage their return from Zaire, to which they fled in 1994 after a convulsion of ethnic violence.
Two weeks ago, under pressure from relief groups and other nations warning of a human catastrophe, President Clinton announced that the United States was prepared to send as many as 4,000 American soldiers to Central Africa as part of a 10,000-member multinational force led by Canada.
Since then, however, more than half a million Rwandan refugees have poured back across the border into Rwanda, greatly easing the crisis and, in the view of a seemingly relieved Clinton Administration, the need for sending American ground troops to eastern Zaire, as was first proposed.
The plans for airdrops would not require combat forces from the United States, although its planes could take part, officials said. The United States has already sent an advance team of 399 support troops, mainly to Uganda and Kenya, and Secretary of Defense William J. Perry, traveling to Italy, said they were prepared to assist the Canadian-led airdrops. Officials here said the support troops in the region could be the extent of the American contribution, although it was possible a couple hundred more could go.
Any airdrops are not expected to begin for several days, as military planners work out the details. Canada also sought today to rally support from other nations that had agreed to take part in the original mission. Neither the United States nor Canada has ruled out an expanded military operation in the future, although officials here said the airdrops could well be the extent of any mission.
In a statement, the White House said the United States would work with Canada and other nations to draft plans for the airdrops, withholding its final approval. "Once that planning is complete, we expect to make a final decision as to what can be accomplished effectively and what precise role the U.S. will play," the statement said.
The President's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, said he believed that the American concerns about the airdrops could be resolved. "I hope they all have solutions," he said. "We just don't have the solutions yet."
While the airdrop option eliminates some threats that a multinational ground force would have faced, the new plan has raised a host of practical and logistical problems.
There are disputes about the number of refugees in Zaire and only sketchy information about their condition and their exact location, complicating the precision of any food airdrops. Thousands of the refugees, mostly Hutu from Rwanda, also appear to be caught in the fighting between Hutu militias that carried out the massacres of Tutsi in Rwanda two years ago and Zairian rebels trying to force the refugees to return home.
Canada nonetheless felt strongly that some relief effort was needed, officials here said, and proposed the airdrops as a compromise after support for a more significant mission waned with each passing day.
Canada's Foreign Minister, Lloyd Axworthy, announced the interim proposals on Tuesday at a meeting of Parliament in Ottawa, while other Canadian officials discussed them with officials from the United States and other nations at the Canadian Mission to the United Nations. Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, the Canadian chosen to command a multinational military force, arrived in Rwanda today and met with Paul Kagame, Rwanda's leader, to seek support for a mission.
Under the Canadian plan, the multinational force would set up a headquarters in the region, probably at Entebbe, which could become the base for a broader mission involving forces on the ground to support relief efforts, if the situation worsened.
In discussions with Canada, officials in the Clinton Administration and at the United Nations expressed concerns to the Canadians that the airdrops, performed from a high altitude to avoid hostile fire, could pose a danger to refugees if the heavy pallets fell on them during the operation. They also fear, one senior Administration official said, that the food could end up in the hands of the fighting forces rather than reaching hungry refugees.
The Administration, like the Government in Rwanda, also wants to make sure the airdrops do not discourage the Hutu refugees from returning home. "If you drop this food in eastern Zaire, what's to encourage the people to go back?" an official said.
Officials said that if the refugees continued to return home, even the airdrops might not be needed.
"The situation," an Administration official said, "is improving faster than the international community can come up with a response."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

209 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

September 27, 2017 Wednesday

Trump admin defends new refugee cap of 45,000 in coming year

BYLINE: Josh Lederman | The Associated Press

LENGTH: 749 words

Washington o The Trump administration defended its decision Wednesday to sharply curtail the number of refugees allowed into the United States to 45,000 next year, even as global humanitarian groups decried the move and called the number far too low.
The 45,000 cap, to be formally announced by President Donald Trump in the coming days, reflects the maximum the U.S. will admit during the fiscal year that starts Sunday, although the actual number allowed could be far lower. Even if the cap is ultimately hit, it would reflect the lowest admissions level for the U.S. in more than a decade. 
Lowering the cap reflects Trump's opposition to accepting refugees and other immigrants into the U.S., an approach that has already driven down refugee admissions. Former President Barack Obama had wanted to take in 110,000 in 2017, but the pace slowed dramatically after Trump took office and issued an executive order addressing refugees. The total admitted in the fiscal year that ends Sunday is expected to be around 54,000, officials said. In 2016, the last full year of Obama's administration, the U.S. welcomed 84,995 refugees.
Though a broad array of criteria determines who receives refugee status, the allotments are broken down into specific numbers of refugees admitted from various geographic regions. The State Department conveyed those numbers to Congress on Wednesday, officials said.
Africa will receive the largest allotment of 19,000 refugees, or 42 percent of the total. The next-highest number goes to the Middle East and South Asia, which will be granted 17,500 slots, or 39 percent. The remaining allotments include 5,000 for East Asia, 2,000 for Europe and 1,500 for Latin America and the Caribbean.
Although the totals are far lower than in the Obama administration, the percentage granted to each region was left almost unchanged from the last year of Obama's term. One key difference there will no longer be an "unallocated" allotment of 14,000 refugees that could come from any region.
Trump's decision has drawn consternation from aid groups who have pointed to refugee crises that have worsened, not improved, including in Syria, Myanmar and South Sudan. Several groups have urged Trump to reconsider and adopt a figure closer to Obama's goal of 110,000.
"With historically high numbers of innocent people fleeing violence worldwide, the United States response cannot be to welcome a historically low number of refugees into our country," said Bill O'Keefe of Catholic Relief Services.
But Trump administration officials said the new cap will advance national security interests and reflect the United States' capacity to properly screen and take in refugees. They said new screening and admittance requirements for refugees will be announced later, as a 6-month review, ordered by Trump near the start of his presidency, draws to a close.
It's unclear how those requirements might affect individuals from countries included in Trump's revised travel restrictions, a list that includes Syria, Yemen, Chad, Libya and Somalia. Officials couldn't say whether people from those countries would be allowed in as refugees. The officials briefed reporters on a conference call on condition of anonymity.
Trump's administration settled on the 45,000 figure after a vigorous debate among his top advisers, other officials have said, including some who advocated letting in far fewer. Strong opposition to higher levels from some top aides has fueled speculation that Trump's administration might set a limit of 45,000, but then deliberately slow-walk admissions so that the number actually allowed in is significantly lower.
But officials pushed back, arguing that while it's often the case that actual admissions are somewhat lower than the cap, the U.S. would work to accept as many as possible within the 45,000 limit.
Worldwide, there were some 22.5 million refugees last year, according to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, with many more people internally displaced within their home countries. The strong preference among aid groups and governments has been to seek conditions so refugees can return to their homes, rather than being permanently resettled in host countries.
Trump has made limiting immigration the centerpiece of his policy agenda. He temporarily banned visitors from a handful of Muslim-majority nations, has rescinded an Obama-era executive action protecting young immigrants from deportation and insists he'll build a wall along the southern border with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

210 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

June 8, 2006 Thursday  
Late Edition - Final

At Human Rights Film Festival, Horror and Hope

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words

Amid the somber procession of injustices paraded by the annual Human Rights Watch International Film Festival, rays of light inevitably filter through. Human resilience, determination and hope in the face of hardship and oppression can never be underestimated. When you run across such radiance in a grim environment, your heart surges with wonder. 
  ''The Refugee All Stars,'' the opening film this evening of the 15-day festival at the Walter Reade Theater in Lincoln Center, follows a hardy band of six Sierra Leonean musicians who fled their country's civil war to settle in the Sembakounya refugee camp in rural Guinea. For all their diversity in age and background -- members of the group include a teenage rapper and a rhythm guitarist in his 50's -- their stories, told in a reggae- and soul-tinged West African style, knit into a powerful expression of common experience. As harrowing as these personal tales may be, the music buoying them is uplifting. The cliche bears repeating: music heals and creates community. 
 Directed by Zach Niles and Banker White, two documentarians from the Bay Area, this no-frills movie, made over three years, follows the group, founded in 2002, as it embarks on a concert tour of Guinean refugee camps during which the members tell their stories and reunite with friends they had assumed had been killed in the war. With enormous trepidation, they eventually decide to leave the relative safety of Guinea and go back across the border to confront the unknown in their homeland, where an uneasy peace has been reached. 
  Two more screenings of the film on June 22 will be accompanied by a discussion and appearances by the band. 
  ''Rain in a Dry Land,'' written and directed by Anne Makepeace, is a fascinating companion to ''The Refugee All Stars'' because it illustrates the cultural chasm between Africa and America. The movie follows the amazing journey of two Somali Bantu families from a refugee camp in Kenya to the United States under the sponsorship of two different relief organizations. 
  One settles in Atlanta, the other in Springfield, Mass. As they learn the basics of life in the industrialized West (they have to be taught to walk up and down stairs), individual personalities emerge. The particular strength of this film is its intimacy, its insistence on portraying immigrants, too often lumped together by documentaries as a huddled mass of suffering, as complicated, high-strung people negotiating the personal boundaries between their traditions and Western modernity. 
  In the Spanish documentary ''Switch Off,'' the indigenous Pehuenche-Mapuche people of the Chilean Andes protest their displacement when a hydroelectric project built by the Spanish energy company Endesa floods their legally protected land in the Ralco Valley. This film shows a classic confrontation between the weak and strong in which the strong, the impersonal forces of globalization, will not be stopped. 
  Underlying this year's Human Rights Watch festival is the groundswell of opposition to the war in Iraq, examined directly from three different perspectives and indirectly in several other films. The unspoken parallels between Iraq and Vietnam and the antiwar movements then and now are illustrated by ''The Camden 28,'' a poignant documentary recalling the all-but-forgotten trial of 28 Vietnam War opponents, mostly members of the Catholic Left, who were prosecuted for breaking into a draft board office in August 1971. Thirty-five years later, the participants, who were acquitted of any crime, proudly recall their accomplishment. 
  Michael Winterbottom and Mat Whitecross's already famous docudrama, ''The Road to Guantanamo'' (it opens in New York on June 23), dramatizes the ordeal of four Pakistani-British who, traveling to Pakistan via Afghanistan to attend a wedding, found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time. They were rounded up as suspected terrorists, and three of the four were eventually shipped to Guantanamo Bay, where they were held for nearly two years without charges. (The whereabouts of the fourth is not known.) 
  If the graphic depiction of their stomach-turning experiences of abuse and humiliation makes no pretense to objectivity, the film remains a devastating indictment of where the relaxing of safeguards against the inhumane treatment of prisoners may have taken us. 
  James Longley's ''Iraq in Fragments,'' which already won three awards at the Sundance Film Festival and was shown at the Tribeca Film Festival, observes ordinary Iraqi citizens in three regions: Baghdad, the Shiite south and the Kurdish north. Only the Kurds, grateful for being freed from the tyranny of Saddam Hussein, speak kindly of the American presence. The cumulative portrait is of a country relentlessly pulled apart by ethnic and religious differences. 
  Finally, ''Winter in Baghdad,'' a Spanish documentary filmed in the winter of 2004 and having its New York premiere, offers a ground-level view of ordinary Iraqis, including a group of resourceful teenagers, surviving however they can in the war-torn capital city. If the film is not overtly polemic, like almost every documentary that examines the ravages of war on the people living through it, its infinitely sad portrait of waste, destruction and suffering speaks for itself.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An image from ''The Refugee All Stars,'' about musicians who fled war. (Photo by Film Society of Lincoln Center)(pg. E1)
 From ''Rain in a Dry Land,'' about Somali Bantu families in America. (Photo by Film Society of Lincoln Center)(pg. E2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company

213 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

October 16, 1990, Tuesday, City Edition

Agreement may be near on child-care bill

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg.  4A

LENGTH: 633 words

 
Senate leaders say they are near an agreement with the White House on a $ 13-billion child-care bill that would provide matching money to states seeking to set up training programs and to subsidize state-regulated child-care centers. After years of efforts, it appears that Congress has finally devised the vehicle to provide federal money to modernize the nation's child-care system. Lawmakers involved in negotiations said the two sides are close to concluding an agreement under which participating states could either give families vouchers for day care or grant direct subsidies to centers.  The negotiations seek to avert a threatened White House veto on grounds that Senate and House versions of the bill establish a new and unnecessary federal child-care bureaucracy. By Monday evening, congressional aides said the main issue unresolved was how much federal money to distribute to the states. 
 Bush allows more refugees
 President Bush said Monday he was raising to 131,000 from 125,000 the number of refugees that can be admitted to the United States this year for humanitarian reasons. Bush raised to 50,000 the number of refugees permitted from the Soviet Union. Last year's ceiling on refugees from the Soviet Union was 42,000. Refugee limits for other regions are 52,000 from East Asia, 6,000 from the Near East and South Asia, 5,000 from Eastern Europe, 4,900 from Africa and 3,100 from Latin America and the Caribbean.
 Angry constituent says it with paint
 PEORIA, Ill.  An angry constituent is using House Minority Leader Robert Michel's house as a billboard to express displeasure with federal tax policies and pay raises. For the second time in nine months, a vandal has painted messages across the front of Michel's home of more than 35 years in this central Illinois city. "Cut Taxes, Deficit" and "Repeal Stolen Pay Raise" were sprayed in green paint on the front of the house. A dollar sign was painted on the door. A spokesman for Michel said the congressman was angry and disappointed about the incident, which happened over the weekend when Michel was in Washington. No one has been arrested and police reports list no suspects. Similar vandalism occurred in  February at Michel's house.
 Negotiators move forward on clean air bill
 House negotiators reportedly agreed Monday to give the steel industry more time to comply with tougher new toxic air pollution requirements. The action moved a House-Senate conference committee one step closer to overall agreement on the first reorganization of the nation's federal clean air laws in 13 years. The development appeared to set the stage for a settlement with the Senate over new controls on toxic chemical emissions from the industry as a whole. The Associated Press reported that House negotiators decided to give steel companies an additional 20 years, until the year 2020, to bring coke ovens in line with the rest of industry. The Senate proposal already has such a provision. The section on toxic emissions and another section on acid rain are the two major unsettled issues before the conference committee.
 Briefly. . .
 The House approved legislation Monday to create the post of chief financial officer for the U.S. government, a move designed to fight bureaucratic waste, fraud and mismanagement. The Bush administration opposes the bill.
 Vietnam's Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach will meet with administration officials Wednesday to discuss the possibility of providing additional information about the nearly 1,700 Americans f
f still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.
 President Bush said he will nominate Robert William Gambino, a 20-year veteran of the CIA, to be director of Selective Service.
 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Robert Michel

Times Publishing Company

214 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 12, 1989, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Eyes 50,000 Limit On Soviet Emigres in '90;
Up to 150,000 Are Expected to Seek Entry

BYLINE: John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 668 words

The Bush administration plans to propose to Congress that the United States accept 50,000 refugees from the Soviet Union during the coming year -- far fewer than the 100,000 to 150,000 Soviet Jews, evangelical Christians and other Soviet citizens expected to seek admission to this country in 1990.
The 50,000 slots proposed for Soviet emigres, most of them Jews, would make them the biggest single subgroup of the 125,000 refugees that the administration will recommend admitting during fiscal 1990, which begins Oct. 1. Still, it would mean that the United States, after waging a two-decade struggle to induce Moscow to ease its restrictions on emigration, will be in the embarrassing position of turning away thousands who had hoped to resettle here.
The figures are contained in a confidential memorandum prepared by Jewel S. LaFontant, the State Department's coordinator for refugee affairs. Informed sources said yesterday it has been approved tentatively by the White House and will be proposed to Congress by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh and other U.S. officials in testimony this week. 
In addition to the Soviet quota, LaFontant's memo proposes fiscal 1990 refugee allotments of 3,000 for Africa, 25,000 for "first entry" refugees from East Asia, 26,500 spaces primarily for Amerasians and their families, 6,500 for Eastern Europe exclusive of the Soviet Union, 3,500 for Latin America and the Caribbean, 6,500 for the Middle East and South Asia, and 4,000 for others coming under various private-sector programs.
Refugee status quotas are fixed by the administration in consultation with Congress. The federal government pays refugees' transportation and resettlement costs, and the rising numbers of people seeking such status from troubled areas of the world have put a greater strain on the budgetary resources than the austerity-minded administration is willing to commit.
The 50,000 figure for Soviet immigrants to the United States would apply only to those receiving expenses-paid refugee status. Those denied that status could apply for admission under the attorney general's parole authority, with a reasonable expectation of success. But they would not get U.S. government financial help. Much of the problem stems from President Mikhail Gorbachev's easing of Soviet immigration policies after departures had been sharply curtailed for several years.
An estimated 2 million Jews live in the Soviet Union, and about 50,000 are expected to relocate in the United States this year. State Department officials have told Congress that they expect up to 150,000 refugee applicants next year.
That has led to an informal consensus between the administration and influential groups in the American Jewish community that the number is too large for the United States to absorb. There is an expectation that most of those denied entry will be redirected to Israel, but considerable disagreement still exists about how many should be admitted to this country.
Since September 1988, the Justice Department has tightened its standards for granting them refugee status, turning down what U.S. Jewish groups estimate is about 20 percent of the applicants. Processing backlogs have also left about 14,000 Jews stranded in Italy and thousands more backed up in the Soviet Union waiting for their applications to be considered.
That has led to drives in Congress for legislation to establish a presumption that Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians are subject to persecution in their homeland and thus make it easier for them to get refugee status.
Rep. Bruce A. Morrison (D-Conn.), sponsor of the legislation in the House, said last night the 50,000-space quota for the Soviet Union is "reasonable." But he added that those already in the pipeline because they had been led to expect they would gain admittance to this country should be judged on a presumptive basis, and he warned that the administration is likely to face a major fight with Congress if it does not go along.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

216 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 1, 2018 Thursday

Federal Register: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 Pages 55091 - 55092 [FR DOC # 2018-24135]

LENGTH: 609 words

Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:   Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 83 , No. 212 / Thursday, November 1, 2018 / Presidential Documents ___________________________________________________________________ Title 3-- The President [[Page 55091]] Presidential Determination No. 2019-01 of October 4, 2018 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 Memorandum for the Secretary of State By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), after appropriate consultations with the Congress, and consistent with the Report on Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 submitted to the Congress on September 17, 2018, I hereby determine and authorize as follows: The admission of up to 30,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest. This number includes persons admitted to the United States during FY 2019 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below. The admissions shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations: Africa................................................. 11,000 ...... East Asia.............................................. 4,000 ...... Europe and Central Asia................................ 3,000 ...... Latin America/Caribbean................................ 3,000 ...... Near East/South Asia................................... 9,000 ...... The number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2019 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members). Additionally, you are authorized, following notification of the appropriate committees of the Congress, to transfer unused admissions allocated to a region to one or more other regions, if greater admissions are needed for such region or regions.  
Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States, and I accordingly designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2019, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. persons in Cuba b. persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. persons in Iraq [[Page 55092]] d. persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location, in exceptional circumstances. You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.                                      (Presidential Sig.)                  THE WHITE HOUSE,                      Washington, October 4, 2018  [FR Doc. 2018-24135 Filed 10-31-18; 11:15 am] Billing code 4710-10-P    

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

217 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 28, 2017 Thursday  
Suburban Edition

U.S. plans to set record-low cap on refugees

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky;Carol Morello

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1026 words

Ceiling of 45,000 marks lowest total since 1980 law established program
The United States plans to accept a maximum of 45,000 refugees in the coming fiscal year, according to a report obtained by The Washington Post, a figure that represents the lowest cap in decades and one that human rights groups quickly condemned.
The State Department and Department of Homeland Security briefed members of Congress on the plan Wednesday. The cap, previously reported by the Wall Street Journal and others, is the lowest since a 1980 law created an organized refugee program. 
"It's a devastating blow to the U.S. refugee admissions program and this country's sense of self and history of compassion in welcoming refugees," said Naureen Shah, campaign director for the U.S. arm of Amnesty International, which had recommended a ceiling of 75,000. "It feels like a sharp betrayal, pouring gas on the fire that is engulfing the world. We see all over the world, ordinary people are being treated worse than cattle. For the Trump administration to become an accomplice to that is heartbreaking."
A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said authorities had "every plan to process as many refugees as we can under this ceiling." A White House official said: "The president's strategy on refugees is guided first and foremost by the safety and security of the American people. The United States can also help a larger number of refugees by resettling them in their home region and enabling their eventual safe return home."
The cap is for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 and ends Sept. 30, 2018. It calls for the United States to accept 19,000 people from Africa; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia; 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and 17,500 from the Near East and South Asia.
To the alarm of some advocates, the report said that when making decisions on whether to admit refugees, U.S. officials would "take into account certain criteria that enhance a refugee's likelihood of successful assimilation and contribution to the United States."
"I find that really troubling," said Melanie Nezer, an official with the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, one of the nine agencies working with the government to acclimate and resettle refugees.
Bill Frelick, director of the refugee program at Human Rights Watch, said that criteria was "completely irrelevant."
"Refugees are often traumatized and would not at first glance appear to be good candidates for immigration because they were selected not based on their immigration criteria, but on refugee needs," Frelick said. "And yet many of them have proven resilient over time and become very productive members of society."
A State Department official said: "This is not an additional requirement. Instead, it is an area of discussion that State and [the Department of Homeland Security] are exploring this coming year."
While the cap is low - it represents far less than 1 percent of the 22.5 million people counted as refugees - it does not necessarily reflect the actual number of refugees who are admitted to the United States in a year.
That figure fell below 45,000 during several years after the terrorist attacks in 2001. In 2002, refugee admissions plunged to 27,000 from 70,000, and to 28,000 the next year.
But since the law that let the president establish the cap, the ceiling has never gone below 67,000, set by President Ronald Reagan in 1986. The annual ceiling has fluctuated between 70,000 and 80,000 in recent years, until growing to 110,000 under President Barack Obama. Trump cut it to 50,000 midway through the current fiscal year.
A U.S. official said the administration believed this year it could "get into the ballpark of this ceiling."
The report said that in establishing the cap, the administration took into account prospective refugees who had been interviewed but had not yet arrived in the United States, historical data, and an analysis of the government's staffing needs and screening abilities. The Republican and Democratic leaders of the Senate Judiciary Committee, though, said they felt the administration had not sufficiently engaged with legislators before settling on a figure.
"Congress and the law require real engagement on this important subject," Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) and ranking Democrat Dianne Feinstein (Calif.) said in a statement. "An eleventh-hour meeting to check a legal box is not sufficient."
The report said that the refugee population has been increasing, and the United States, in particular, has been wrestling with more people who make their way to the country and seek asylum once they are here. The report said officials expect to have a backlog of more than 300,000 such cases early in fiscal 2018.
The report touts the United States' expansive role in resettling refugees, noting that it is the single largest donor to the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, providing more than $1.5 billion in fiscal year 2016. The UNHCR referred more than 90 percent of refugees for resettlement to the United States, Australia and Canada in 2016, according to the report.
Even at the reduced ceiling of 45,000, the United States will resettle the most refugees in raw numbers. But other nations, such as Canada, take in far more in proportion to their populations.
While the cap goes into effect Oct. 1, President Trump's temporary ban on refugees, inked in March, remains in effect until Oct. 24. That would keep out refugees without a bona fide connection to the United States.
While the administration recently unveiled a new entry ban affecting, in various ways, citizens of eight countries, the directive did not address what would happen with refugees. The refugee report references the new executive order, noting the administration's desire to improve screening and vetting procedures when it comes to refugees.
It is unclear if the administration will impose any restrictions on top of the cap after Oct. 24. A U.S. official said the administration was still reviewing current vetting and screening procedures, which are already robust.
matt.zapotosky@washpost.com
carol.morello@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

220 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

May 15, 2005 Sunday 2 Late Tampa Edition

EASING REFUGEES' TRANSITION;
 Refugees get advice, services

BYLINE: DEMORRIS LEE

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: TAMPA

They chased each other. They drew pictures, ate ice cream and won door prizes.
But behind the twinkling eyes and cheeks daubed with flowers at the face-painting table, one could still see vestiges of struggle in the faces of these children who've come so far and been through so much.
The struggle of having to leave your entire life behind. The struggle of playing hopscotch with a friend one day and then never seeing her again. 
Saturday, members of Lutheran Services Florida tried to help soften the transition for about 100 refugees by hosting a Refugee Health Fair at its facility at the corner of W Waters Avenue and N Dale Mabry Highway.
The fair included blood pressure and weight screenings, personal safety instructions in three languages from the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office and children's health information.
The children from Somalia, Croatia, Columbia and a few other countries had their heads fitted for bicycle helmets and ate goodies from red and green gift bags while their parents tended to the business of putting their lives back together in America.
"This is very, very much better, living here in America than where we were," said Hamida Ibrahim, 31, of Somalia. "In the (refugee) camp, there was a lot to be afraid. America is better, not afraid here."
Through the use of a translator, Ibrahim said she and her family had lived in a refugee camp in Kenya since 1999, before coming to America with her five children in November. She said during the political turmoil in Somalia she walked to Kenya for safety. She said Saturday's fair was helpful.
"Through this, we gain some more knowledge," she said. "There is much to learn."
The Tampa Bay area is scheduled to settle about 500 refugees this year, said Rosa Rivera Mizzoni, director of Immigration and Refugee Services for Lutheran Services Florida. Refugees must prove that they have a well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, membership in a social group, political opinion or national origin.
Each year, the U.S. president, along with Congress, sets the number of refugees to be admitted to the country for resettlement. In fiscal year 2004, the number was set at 70,000 admissions, but that many refugees have not been able to make it to the country. In fiscal year 2002, 27,000 were admitted.
Mizzoni said that the Tampa Bay area has an "eclectic" mix of refugees, including Vietnamese, Africans and Russians. She said it's important for the newcomers to know how things work, their rights and the importance of health. Bringing together other agencies such as the Department of Health, the Epilepsy Services of West Central Florida and Amerigroup, which provides low and no-cost health care to eligible families, is important.
"There is a rhythm to functioning in the United States," Mizzoni said. "We are constantly reteaching them because for a while, everything is new. But the minute they get the timing, things start working."
Deputy Juan Gonzales works with the Sheriff's Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is funded by a federal grant. He was explaining the law enforcement system to a Croatian family Saturday.
"In America, there are 25 guns for every one citizen," Gonzales said via a translator to the family. "Having guns is a right that the Founding Fathers provided for Americans. But if you can purchase a gun, come see me because I have safety locks for them."
Gonzales went on to say: "It takes a lot of courage to leave everything and start a new life. I respect you for that."
Alexander Ramirez of Columbia was at Saturday's fair and has been in the United States since 2000. As his child pulled on him to go see Grimace and the Hamburglar from McDonald's and to see if they were winners of the raffle, he agreed that starting anew was difficult.
"It's very hard because it's a different culture, economic system, different everything," Ramirez, 36, said. "But it's a safer place and that's what I was looking for, a safer place to raise my children."
 
Demorris Lee can be reached at (813) 269-5312 or dalee@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA; Halimo Bilal, 8, watches McDonald's character the Hamburglar, not pictured, greet kids as Grimace waves during the Lutheran Services Florida Refugee Health Fair in Tampa Saturday.

TYPE: Newspaper

Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company

221 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

June 22, 2017 Thursday

Washington: WORLD REFUGEE DAY

LENGTH: 815  words

DATELINE: New York 


Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following house proceeding:  
 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Gutierrez) for 5 minutes. Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Speaker, yesterday was World Refugee Day, a day set aside by the United Nations to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help.  
To mark this solemn occasion, today, the Judiciary Committee House Republicans will vote to slash refugee resettlement numbers, cut back aid to those fleeing violence and persecution for their religious or political beliefs, and make it harder for children fleeing violence, especially those from Central America, from receiving asylum from the richest, most powerful Nation in the world. Tell me, how does that make America great again, Mr. Speaker? According to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, there are more than 65 million people--a record number today--who have been forcibly displaced from their homes. More than 21 million are refugees. Eighty- six percent of the world's refugees are now finding refuge in the developing world, with only 14 percent finding refuge in developed countries like the U.S. or European nations. Worldwide, more than half of all refugees are children. So when anti- immigrant leaders, websites, and TV networks paint those fleeing the Middle East, Africa, and Asia as hardened jihadists, or those fleeing Central America as gangbangers and drug dealers, remember, most of them are just kids--little kids. That is what we are talking about, fleeing their country for their lives. Mr. Speaker, America has, throughout our history, been a beacon of hope to refugees fleeing religious attacks, facing government intolerance and persecution, ethnic strife, or unsustainable poverty. Beginning in the 1840s, when the potato crop disappeared because of a blight in Ireland, the Irish people were left starving. Over 8 million people in Ireland, 3 to 4 million of them faced starvation. About 1 million died mostly of starvation and disease. Another 2 million came where? To America. According to a recent article in The Irish Times: ``Panic had set in by the winter of 1846/47. People risked winter voyages across the Atlantic on unsanitary, unsafe `coffin ships.' '' The article continues: ``People were placed in quarantine stations, or held onboard ships docked at ports.'' ``Refugees experienced violent and racist reactions. Liverpool, Glasgow'' . . . ``Montreal, Boston, New York, and Philadelphia sought unsuccessfully to restrict entry'' of the Irish. A lot of this sounds familiar to me today when we discuss the Muslim ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its commitment to refugees, or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today, to punish children for fleeing for their lives. Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland. That is about 10 percent of the U.S. population. And let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what they consider their best people. They were poor, they were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said that they were sending rapists, murderers, and drunks, even as some, they assumed, were good people. They were from a religion that threatened the United States. They were Catholics who were as foreign to American Protestants, in some regards, as Muslims are today. But who can imagine America without the Irish today? You look down the list of generals, Presidents, Members of Congress, and every aspect of American society today, and we can all say, to some degree, we are Irish. As House Republicans vote today to pass bills to keep out the wretched refuse of your teeming shores, as we pass laws to pull up the drawbridge and put a big ``Do Not Enter'' sign on the Statue of Liberty, I hope my Republican colleagues who can trace roots back to someone who came across the water and risked everything and bet their lives on the United States, I hope all of us will reflect on those ancestors as we deliberate laws and how we would have kept so many of them out. [[Page H4998]] His Holiness Pope Francis, who we all remember just spoke steps away from where I am at right now, reminded us to always follow the Golden Rule in all our deliberations. Pope Francis said just this past Sunday that the nations of the world should continue to welcome refugees; and each of us, as individuals, can learn a lot by meeting with, speaking with, and breaking bread with refugees. His Holiness said: `` . . . personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity.'' Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues have been listening, as we have a Speaker who is both Catholic and Irish, but I fear they will not. 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

222 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

October 1, 1998 Thursday

CLINTON LOWERS REFUGEE PERMITS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

President Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year before.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press 
All Rights Reserved

228 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

January 25, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

YEARNING TO BE FREE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 254 words

 
As the Jan. 16 editorial on immigration so accurately stated, no group wants to gain refugee slots at the expense of other refugees. The National Jewish Community Relations Advisory Council, comprised of local and national community relations councils, supports legislation to provide a more open legal immigration policy for all categories of eligible immigrants. It is the responsibility of our government to strive to maintain the pluralistic character of our society. Our government must be sensitive to the plight of refugees around the world, including Jewish refugees from the Soviet Union and refugees from Indochina, Africa and Central America. We will continue to join with others to press the U.S. government to meet its responsibility in the absorption of refugees through increases in refugee slots and funding.  Maury Poscover Domestic Issues Committee Jewish Community Relations Council Creve Coeur

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

231 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: CAPAC Leaders on Syrian and Iraqi Refugee Legislation

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Mike Honda has issued the following news release:

  

 Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 289-137 to pass H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015.  This bill adds new certification requirements to the existing refugee admissions process, including requirements that the FBI Director, the Homeland Security Secretary, and the National Intelligence Director concur on the approval of each refugee admitted from Iraq and Syria.  CAPAC Chair Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) and CAPAC Chair Emeritus Rep. Michael Honda (CA-17) released the following statements: 


 

 Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27), CAPAC Chair:

 

 &ldquo;The terrorist attacks in Paris were horrifying. Our thoughts are with the victims and all of France as we are reminded of our own need to ensure the safety of our cities and people. But this bill is not the solution. We must stop using fear tactics as a means to enact bad policy.

 

 &ldquo;The reality is that we already have in place one of the strictest refugee policies in the world. It takes up to two years of multiple in-person interviews, background checks, and interagency cooperation before a refugee is allowed into the U.S. This process, thanks to the hard work of our intelligence and security communities, is and has been successful at weeding out threats. And that is why the vast majority of refugees admitted are widows, orphans, and victims of torture.

 

 &ldquo;It would be wrong from a moral and a security standpoint to abandon them in refugee camps where they are subject to violence or radicalization. I agree that we need a serious plan to confront the threat of ISIS, but that should not begin with attacks on frightened and vulnerable women and children. Closing our borders to refugees is a mistake and a violation of our country's values.&rdquo;

 

 Congressman Michael Honda (CA-17), CAPAC Chair Emeritus:

 

 &ldquo;Today, we have people fleeing violence and persecution in the Middle East, Central America, Asia, and Africa who are counting on the United States to stay true to its values of humanity, compassion, and religious freedom. I opposed the U.S. SAFE Act because it upends our existing rigorous refugee process and slams the door in the face of the very people fleeing ISIL and its atrocities. It is during times of peril that we must remember the lessons we have learned and stay anchored to our Constitution. It is what makes our Nation great.

 

 &ldquo;We need only look to the internment of 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry after the bombing of Pearl Harbor to see how fear-based decisions can leave a lasting dark spot on our proud history. We cannot repeat our mistakes born from racial prejudice, war hysteria, and a failure of political leadership. Now is the time to uphold the legacy of the United States as a country founded by immigrants and people seeking freedom and liberty.&rdquo;

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

237 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

March 28, 2012 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

Wars in Middle East and Africa Fuel Rise in Asylum Requests

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 369 words

Escapees from new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a rising tide of people fleeing chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent increase in requests for asylum in industrialized countries last year, the United Nations refugee agency reported Tuesday. 
Its annual report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries 2011, said 441,300 people requested asylum last year, compared with 368,000 in 2010. The report surveyed 44 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.
The report said that the region with the largest increase in claims for the year was southern Europe, where 66,800 people sought asylum last year, most of them arriving by boat in Italy and Malta, an increase of 87 percent from the year before.
''The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of great difficulty for very many people,'' Antonio Guterres, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said in a statement from his Geneva office.
Together, the 38 countries of Europe registered 327,200 asylum claims, more than any other region; the figure was a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America registered 99,400 claims, a 25 percent increase.
The country of origin for the largest number of asylum seekers was Afghanistan -- 35,700, a 34 percent increase from the year before. China, the world's most populous nation, remained the second-largest source of asylum seekers, at 24,400, followed by Iraq, at 23,500.
The United States was the individual country covered by the report that received the most applications for asylum, estimated at 74,000. But the report noted that South Africa, which was not covered, received 107,000 asylum claims in 2011. South Africa has attracted an enormous number of refugees lately, not only from neighbors in southern Africa but also from as far away as Pakistan and Bangladesh.
The report noted that while claims for asylum are an indicator of the desperation created by conflicts, they are not an indicator of broader migration trends, and do not reflect the number of people who are officially recognized as refugees.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company

247 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

October 14, 2005 Friday  
Final Edition

Edward B. Marks, 94; 
Aided World's Refugees

BYLINE: Patricia Sullivan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 778 words

Edward B. Marks, 94, who spent more than 50 years helping refugees of war, disease and politics around the world find new homes, died of heart disease and renal failure Oct. 8 at his home in Mill Valley, Calif. 
 Mr. Marks, an urbane and well-traveled man, worked since the 1930s on relief, resettlement and rehabilitation of refugees on four continents. He hopscotched around the globe with several government and nongovernmental agencies, turning up near homeless people in postwar Europe, war-torn Africa and impoverished Asian countries. He was an administrator who kept his staff focused on the people who needed their help, a colleague said.  
 "In some ways, he was the repository of our collective conscience. He really understood at a gut level what it meant to be a refugee," said Lavinia Limon, president and chief executive of what is now the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants. 
 Mr. Marks, a New York City native and graduate of Dartmouth College and Columbia University, began his career as a journalist with the American Wine and Liquor Journal. But from 1938 on, most of his attention was focused on refugees, whether displaced by war, famine or governmental actions. 
 "He just had a genuine interest in people. I can't tell you how many times I took cabs with him and he'd get into conversations with cabdrivers, ask where they were from and usually had been to some little place in Africa or Asia," said stepdaughter Vivian Barad of San Francisco. "He was just interested in people and just truly wanted the satisfaction of helping people." 
 After he received a master's degree in sociology from Columbia in 1938, he was working at a magazine published by the Welfare Council of NYC. Mr. Marks interviewed the director of the National Refugee Service for an article about efforts to place prewar refugees in flight from Adolf Hitler and was offered a job. 
 He worked there until 1942, when he joined the War Relocation Authority, the agency responsible for resettlement of Japanese Americans who had been forced from their homes on the West Coast by the federal government during World War II. He worked briefly on public housing and veterans housing after the war ended, then joined the U.N. International Refugee Organization. 
 Sent to Athens in 1950, Mr. Marks found thousands of refugees from Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Yugoslavia fleeing their homes in search of asylum. He developed a way to register, examine and prepare refugees for immigration interviews with representatives of Australia, Canada, Brazil, New Zealand and the United States. 
 Mr. Marks stayed on in Greece with the International Organization for Migration and, in late 1953, returned to the United States to open a New York office, which was needed to help receive more than 100,000 European refugees preparing to immigrate. In 1957, Mr. Marks was sent to Yugoslavia to help resettle more than 20,000 Hungarian refugees. 
 He took a leave of absence in 1958 to become the first executive director of the U.S. Committee for Refugees, established to coordinate the efforts of U.S. agencies on behalf of refugees during the U.N. World Refugee Year. 
 Mr. Marks joined the Agency for International Development's Africa bureau in 1962 and served in Lagos, Nigeria, during that nation's civil war with Biafra. He worked in Saigon and London and in the agency's Asia bureau, which required him to leave his Leesburg home to travel to India, Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea, the Philippines and Bangladesh. 
 In 1976, Mr. Marks received the agency's first Distinguished Career Award. 
 He also worked for UNICEF and became deputy director of the secretariat for the 1979 U.N. International Year of the Child. He was interim president of the U.S. Committee for UNICEF in 1985, then was elected to the committee's board of directors. 
 Throughout his life, he wrote freelance articles for magazines, including the New Yorker and Playboy. In retirement, he wrote two books about U.N. art and poster collections and a memoir, "Still Counting: Achievements and Follies of a Nonagenarian" (2004). With a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, he produced a radio show that celebrated the American comic song and was broadcast in the Boston area in the 1990s. 
 Mr. Marks lived in Leesburg for about 35 years. 
 His first wife, Margaret Laurens Marks, died in 1980. A son, Thomas Marks, died in 2003. 
 Survivors include his wife of 18 years, Vera Barad Marks of Mill Valley; a daughter from his first marriage, Katharine Marks of Santa Fe, N.M.; a second stepdaughter, Amelia Barad Humphries of St. Helena, Calif.; a stepson, Michael Barad of San Francisco; and eight grandsons. 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

248 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The International Herald Tribune

March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Asylum bids to industrial nations rose 20% in 2011

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words

ABSTRACT
People fleeing new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a rising tide of people escaping from chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent rise in requests for asylum in industrialized countries last year, the U.N. said Tuesday. 

FULL TEXT
People fleeing new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a rising tide of people escaping from chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent increase in requests for asylum in industrialized countries last year, the refugee agency of the United Nations reported on Tuesday. 
The agency's annual report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries 2011, said 441,300 people had requested asylum last year, compared with 368,000 in 2010.
The report surveyed 44 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.
The report said the region with the largest increase in claims for the year was Southern Europe, where 66,800 people sought asylum, most of them arriving by boat in Italy and Malta, an increase of 87 percent from the year before.
''The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of great difficulty for very many people,'' Antnio Guterres, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, said in a statement from his Geneva office.
Together, the 38 countries of Europe registered 327,200 asylum claims, more than any other region; the figure was a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America registered 99,400 claims, a 25 percent increase.
The country of origin for the largest number of asylum seekers was Afghanistan - 35,700, a 34 percent increase from the year before. China remained the second-largest source of asylum seekers, at 24,400, followed by Iraq, at 23,500.
The United States was the individual country covered by the report that received the most applications for asylum, estimated at 74,000.
But the report noted that South Africa, which was not covered, received 107,000 asylum claims in 2011. South Africa has attracted an enormous number of refugees lately, not only from neighbors in southern Africa but also from as far away as Pakistan and Bangladesh.
The report noted that while claims for asylum are an indicator of the desperation created by conflicts, they are not an indicator of broader migration trends, and do not reflect the number of people who are officially recognized as refugees.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

249 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

January 6, 2014 Monday  
METRO EDITION

ON BUSINESS

BYLINE: NEAL ST. ANTHONY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 918 words


HIGHLIGHT: From refugee to restaurateur // Shegitu Kebede, an orphaned refugee from Ethiopia, has lived the American immigrant's dream. Now she's going back to Africa to help others follow in her footsteps.

Shegitu Kebede is one of those hardworking immigrant entrepreneurs who's probably never going to get rich. But she believes she's blessed. And she's enriched herself and others with her heart and volunteer work. She would say that may be the greatest wealth.
"I'm eating and I support myself," said Kebede, an orphan and refugee from war-torn Ethiopia. "I was picked from a refugee camp [in 1989] and assigned to go to America. I was blessed. I have an apartment. My son works with me and my daughter is in college in California. I have many friends." 
This month, Kebede returns to Ethiopia at the invitation of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to help build a school in a refugee camp where children and women bound for America can start learning English and a trade.
Since coming to America, Kebede, 45, has worked as a hotel clerk, run an office-cleaning business that trained other immigrant women and, for the last several years, has been co-owner and manager of Flamingo Restaurant in the Hamline-University neighborhood of St. Paul.
She also is a longtime volunteer and board member of the International Institute of Minnesota (www.iimn.org), which aids immigrants and helps them assimilate.
"I remember being a refuge," Kebede said. "I just sat and ate a little. No running water or shower. No school.
"They need more schools and to learn to sew, make furniture and grow vegetables. To learn English. They are Ethiopian, Eritreans and Sudanese. Some will go to Western countries and others will be resettled. I want to start with one school, get it running. Do it well. Maybe we'll be able to do another."
Kebede has raised more than $20,000 from a fundraising dinner she hosted at the International Institute and other donations from customers, friends and admirers.
"Shegitu is one of my top role models of people
coming from a tough background, rising to a middle-class lifestyle through hard work, and not forgetting to help the people from which she came," said Joe Selvaggio, the veteran nonprofit executive who recently retired from Microgrants (www.microgrants.net), which connects donors and fledgling immigrant and other small businesses with small grants.
"Shegitu had several rough years with her baby in a Kenyan refugee camp," Selvaggio said. "She was an orphan. She lost a brother to war. In America, she started a cleaning business. Now she toils endlessly at her Flamingo Restaurant and is helping her daughter get through college. She is always upbeat and works hard and [helps] disadvantaged Africans or any disadvantage person. And now she's going to take three months off to go to that refugee camp and build a school."
In 2006, Kebede was awarded the McKnight Foundation's Virginia McKnight Binger Human Service Award. In 2011, she was featured in the Minnesota History Center exhibit, "The Value of One Life."
She has written her powerful story in a 2011 book, "Visible Strengths, Hidden Scars."
Kebede has a special place in her heart for women and children. She was beaten and raped while finding her way to a Kenyan refugee camp. And she survived an abusive relationship in America.
She finds solace and meaning through her faith, friends and work; whether cooking delicious food, serving guests or training immigrant workers.
Minnesota is an immigrant state. You particularly notice them in the resurgent core neighborhoods of Minneapolis and St. Paul. About 10 percent of Twin Cities residents are foreign-born.
Economic impact
Prof. Bruce Corrie at Concordia University in St. Paul long has studied immigrants and economics. After an initial cost for resettlement and education, they soon become net economic contributors. It's estimated that immigrant-owned business alone employ 21,000-plus Minnesotans who produce about $2 billion worth of goods and services annually.
In 2009, a study sponsored by the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce and the Minnesota Business Immigrant Coalition concluded, "Unlike native-born Americans, who are aging rapidly and creating what some have called a 'silver tsunami,' immigrants are generally in their prime working years when they come to the United States, thus providing a crucial infusion to the workforce."
Kebede is doing her share. She has worked with nonprofit businesses such as Common Bond and Neighborhood Development Center to learn and increase her skills. She meets with college students from Augsburg, Minneapolis Community and Technical College and elsewhere to discuss immigration and business. And she is thankful for her modest success.
She enriches us with her work and gratitude.
"Many businesspeople have helped me," Kebede said. "Business ... is the culture of America. It brings people together and allows them to grow and flourish."
neal.st.anthony@startribune.com
612-673-7144
SHEGITU KEBEDE
Business: Restaurateur
Background: Kebede, 45, is an Ethiopian orphan who immigrated to the United States in 1989. She has raised two children, worked as a hotel clerk and ran an office-cleaning business for years that employed immigrant women. She has been co-owner of Flamingo Restaurant in St. Paul's Hamline-University neighborhood since 2010. Kebede also is a board member of the International Institute of Minnesota.
In the news: Kebede, a past winner of the Virginia McKnight Binger Human Service Award for her work with refugee families, is returning to Ethiopia this month with about $20,000 in donated funds to build a school in a United Nations refugee camp for East Africans. The school will teach English and work skills.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 Star Tribune
All Rights Reserved

257 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

July 20, 2003 Sunday  
 Late Edition - Final 

U.S. a Place of Miracles for Somali Refugees 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

DATELINE: TUCSON  

The white wooden door swung open and the dazed African villagers stepped into their new home. It was a modest apartment with secondhand furniture and a stove in need of repairs. But to Osman Yarrow, his wife and five children, refugees from Somalia's civil war, it seemed like a place of miracles.
     Clean water coursed out of gleaming faucets, an astonishing luxury for a rural family who had spent more than a decade in mud huts without indoor plumbing. "Red for hot," Mr. Yarrow repeated wonderingly as he held his fingers in the steady stream. "Blue for cold." 
 There were flush toilets instead of pit latrines and beds instead of straw mats. But what Mr. Yarrow treasured most on his first day in his American home was a sense of security. In Somalia, he witnessed the execution of his father and son by marauding militias. In Kenya, his family huddled in bleak refugee camps while bullets sang in the night. 
Here, he listened to the squeals of his children and the hum of a contraption called an air conditioner. "We will sleep without hearing gunshots," he said. "We're finally living in a safe place."
Mr. Yarrow, 40, represents the changing face of America's refugees. Since May, more than 200 members of his tribe, the Somali Bantu, have been flown to 22 cities across the United States, the first wave of one of the government's largest recent refugee resettlement efforts.
By the end of next year, officials plan to resettle nearly 13,000 Bantu, who were enslaved and persecuted for generations in Somalia until civil war scattered them to desolate and violent refugee camps in Kenya in the early 1990's.
Over the past decade, State Department officials have increasingly shifted their focus toward Africa as wars there have displaced millions of people. The end of the cold war has resulted in a sharp decline in refugees from the former Soviet Union and Vietnam. Africans are among those filling the gap.
State Department statistics show that Africans made up 3 percent of the refugees resettled in the United States in the 1990 fiscal year. By 2001, that figure was nearly 30 percent.
The pace of refugee resettlement has slowed sharply since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Thousands of refugees are awaiting security clearance because they are fleeing countries like Somalia and Sudan, which have been accused of sheltering terrorists. Even so, State Department officials say they hope to resettle more than 1,000 Somali Bantu by Sept. 30.
Families have arrived in Houston, Salt Lake City, Nashville, St. Louis, Rochester, Concord, N.H., and other cities like Tucson, where the cost of living is relatively low and entry-level jobs are available.
For the Bantu, it is a journey in both space and in time. They are members of a tribe that was forcibly transported to Somalia from Mozambique, Malawi and Tanzania by Arab slave traders two centuries ago. In Somalia, they were often denied access to education and jobs. Today, they are mostly illiterate and almost untouched by Western life. 
As refugees, they farmed, cooked, cleaned and labored in backbreaking construction jobs in the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya. But most had never flipped a light switch, operated a stove, opened a bank account or flown in an airplane.
Members of the tribe began the long process of adapting to a new culture earlier this year when the International Organization for Migration began familiarizing them with English, American culture and modern appliances while they waited in the Kakuma camp in Kenya. 
Mr. Yarrow and his family stepped off Delta Flight 3912 here this month, carrying little more than their dreams. They plunged into a sea of white faces in the airport, past the shops selling Cheez-Its and leopard-print umbrellas and the passersby who gawked at the colorful Somali dresses of Mr. Yarrow's wife and daughters.
They were welcomed by officials from the International Rescue Committee, a New York agency contracted by the government to help refugees adjust to American life. A caseworker who spoke Somali translated while other officials helped the family collect their small bags and drove them to their new home.
It was a 30-minute journey through a dizzyingly unfamiliar landscape. There were paved roads full of hurtling cars instead of dirt paths traversed by donkeys. There were strip malls and billboards instead of anthills and thorn trees.
In the apartment, the family was introduced to appliances they had never used before: a gleaming sink, a refrigerator and a stove without a working pilot light. (The landlord fixed the stove the next day.) After their flight and lessons, the Yarrows were so exhausted that caseworkers decided to leave explanations about the dishwasher and air conditioner for another day.
But before the refugee officials left, Mr. Yarrow reiterated his biggest priority. "I want to work," he said. "I want to learn English. I want to leave all my problems behind in Kenya."
His enthusiasm is clear, but challenges await him. The Bantu here are practicing Muslims in a country that has become increasingly ambivalent about Arab and Islamic immigrants.
Mr. Yarrow and his family do not speak English and cannot read or write in their own language. They are farmers looking for jobs as cleaners and fast food attendants in a slowing economy.
Some communities have expressed reluctance to accept the new arrivals. In Cayce, S.C., hundreds of people met last month at the City Council to question the decision to resettle refugees there, arguing that they would strain the city's social service agencies and schools.
State Department officials, who are responsible for refugees, say most communities welcome them. Nationally, these officials say, more than half of refugees find some form of work within six months.
Here, four Somali Bantu adults arrived seven weeks before the Yarrow family. Of those, two have found full-time jobs that pay $6.75 an hour and include health benefits, as housekeepers at a local hotel.
Officials at the International Rescue Committee say such progress is common. From the beginning, instructors prepare refugees with English classes, interview skills and job training, along with lessons about how to shop, where to bank and how the local bus system works.
These lessons are crucial. Refugees here receive assistance from the federal government for four months. After that, they are expected to support themselves. Needy families can continue to receive federal refugee assistance for several months and more from the state after that, but that is discouraged.
"When they realize our support is going to stop, that's when they will feel the pressure," said Miro Marinovich, the Tucson coordinator for the International Rescue Committee.
"But I am very positive about this group," Mr. Marinovich said. "Their willingness to learn and their willingness to work: That's what I believe will carry them through."
Abkow Edow and his wife, Madina Idle, who arrived seven weeks before the Yarrows, offer a glimpse of the thrills and frustrations of ordinary life here. They have opened bank accounts, taken the bus and learned to operate their stove. 
They have also learned about the minimum wage and the 40-hour workweek. Mr. Edow, who was a truck driver in Somalia, seems poised to get a job as a steward in a hotel. He has two children and a grandson and all three have fallen in love with strawberry ice cream and American cartoons. 
But the family still tiptoes around some of the appliances.
"The oven, we're still afraid of it," confessed Mr. Edow, 55. "We're still afraid of the dishwasher. We have never seen such things in our lives."
Mr. Edow dreams of owning an auto-repair shop someday. He wants to shed his old life, just as snakes shed their skins. But at night, he still returns, in his dreams, to the violence in Somalia. Like Mr. Yarrow, he saw his father executed. The killer, he said, used a hammer and nails. He buries his head in his hands at the memory.
"We want to move forward," he said. "We want to forget the past."
On the day the Yarrow family arrived, Mr. Edow was in high spirits. He watched as Mr. Yarrow and his wife, Khadija Hussein, practiced using their first can opener on some Campbell's chicken soup and sampled their first taste of blackberry jam on white bread.
Ms. Hussein looked at the fruit spread hesitantly. Then she took a bite and smiled.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yahya Omar, above, left, a caseworker, gives a shopping lesson to Osman Yarrow and his son Muhammad, Somali refugees, at a store in Tucson. With them is Abkow Edow, a refugee who arrived in Tucson earlier. At right, Mr. Edow and his wife, Madina Idle, open an account at a Tucson bank. (Photographs by Sarah Prall for the New York Times)(pg. 20); With her son, Nur Mohamed, on her back, Khadija Hussein, a refugee from Somalia, shops in Tucson. (Sarah Prall for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Shift to Africa in Resettling Refugees"Over the 1990's, the focus of the government's refugee policies has shifted to accept more refugees from Africa's civil wars. While the overall number of refugees admitted declined sharply after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, many Africans are now awaiting security clearances. Graph tracks the number of refugees admitted to the United States from 1990-2002 from the following locations (for fiscal years ending Sept. 30): FORMER SOVIET UNION: 418,731ASIA: 348,257EUROPE: 168,869AFRICA: 103,724MIDDLE EAST AND SOUTH ASIA: 75,902LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN: 43,903TOTAL: 1,159,386 (Source: State Department)(pg. 20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

265 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 21, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Zaire Rebels Allow Search For Refugees; Rwandans Scattered Around Border Area

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 927 words

DATELINE: BUKAVU, Zaire, Nov. 20

 
As governments and aid groups continued to dispute the number of Rwandan refugees remaining in eastern Zaire, the rebels who control this border town agreed tonight to allow relief officials to scour the surrounding area for refugees and gauge the needs of any they might find.
Since 500,000 Rwandan Hutu refugees returned to their home country over the weekend from camps around the Zairian border town of Goma, 80 miles north of here, the fate of the other half-million Rwandans who have taken refuge in eastern Zaire since 1994 has been hotly disputed. Aid groups maintain that hundreds of thousands remain in Zaire -- many of them around Bukavu -- while the Rwandan government proclaimed on Tuesday that all the refugees had returned home or were on their way there and that the two-year-old refugee crisis was over.
Resolution of the dispute could determine whether foreign governments proceed with plans to send a multinational military force to help with the feeding and repatriation of any remaining refugees. 
Tonight's move by the rebels, a largely Zairian Tutsi force that has driven the Zairian army from much of the border region, broke a week-long impasse between them and international aid workers and gave relief officials their first access to the Bukavu region since the rebels seized this town on the southern shores of Lake Kivu nearly three weeks ago.
The Rwandan refugees in Zaire were mostly Hutus who fled their country in 1994 in fear of reprisal killings when a Tutsi-led rebel force halted extremist Hutus' massacre of Tutsis and moderate Hutus, which claimed an estimated half-million lives. They settled in camps clustered mostly around Goma and Bukavu, which were dominated by the perpetrators of the 1994 massacre, who staged guerrilla raids into Rwanda and prevented the other refugees from returning there.
The Hutu refugees were scattered from most of those camps in recent weeks by fighting between the Zairian army and the Zairian rebels, who were backed by the Rwandan government. At least 500,000 refugees gathered at one Goma-area camp, Mugunga, and returned to Rwanda over the weekend; the rest are unaccounted for.
The United Nations says about 700,000 Rwandans are still in Zaire. Of those refugees, aid workers say about 500,000 are scattered in the hills and forests of Zaire's South Kivu Province, where Bukavu is located.
In Washington, U.S. officials said today that because it is the rainy season in central Africa, clouds have impeded satellite surveillance attempts to track the refugees. The United States has used low-flying C-12 and P-3 propeller planes -- one of which observed nearby antiaircraft fire today -- to try to find refugees who are still unaccounted for. On Tuesday, these aircraft found two groups, each with approximately 50,000 refugees, on either side of a volcano at the north end of Lake Kivu. But by today the groups had disappeared, and U.S. officials said they did not know where they had gone.
The overflights also found an estimated 200,000 people in one group in the Mitumba Mountains, west of the lake. However, officials said many of those could be Zairians displaced by fighting in the area. Senior U.S. officials said aerial surveillance had found nothing south of Bukavu.
Relief officials in Kigali, the Rwandan capital, added to the uncertainty today when they reported that tens of thousands of refugees from around Bukavu were moving north toward Goma and could come through that border town into Rwanda within the next few days.
Here on the the Rusizi River, which separates Bukavu and the Rwandan town of Cyangugu, there was a small but steady flow of a few hundred refugees into Rwanda today.
Aid officials contend that the masses of refugees still unaccounted for are in dire need of food and medical care. The international military force, these officials contend, remains critical to ensure that aid is delivered safely and effectively, and they say the uncertainty about the numbers of refugees makes discussion of canceling the mission premature.
"This is exactly the wrong time to step back from the worst refugee crisis in modern times," Lionel A. Rosenblatt, president of the Washington-based Refugees International, said as he stood at the Rwanda-Zaire border waiting for permission to cross to Bukavu.
The fate of the proposed force will be discussed Friday in Stuttgart, Germany, by representatives of nations that may participate in the mission.
Returning refugees who crossed from Bukavu to Cyangugu today told of continuing ethnic conflict deep in the Kivu region, with members of the former Rwandan militias continuing their anti-Tutsi campaign on Zairian soil.
"My coming here now is because of the instability in that place," Antoine Kayiranga, 50, said of the camp at Katana, about 25 miles north of here, where he lived until early this month. He was separated from his wife and children during the fighting in the region and does not know where they are.
Unlike most of the refugees who have poured back into Rwanda in recent days, Kayiranga is a Tutsi who fled Rwanda in 1959 when Hutus came to power shortly before Rwanda gained independence from Belgium. Despite having deep roots in Zaire after so many years of living here, Kayiranga said he had to leave because the Hutu extremists who have lived among the Rwandan refugees "have exported their genocide ideology to that region."
Correspondent Stephen Buckley in Kigali and staff writer Thomas W. Lippman in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart; Photo, carol guzy , HOW TO HELP REFUGEES IN ZAIRE DIRECT AID Adventist Development and Relief Agency 12501 Old Columbia Pike Silver Spring, MD 20904 (301) 680-6370 American Jewish Joint Dist. Committee 711 Third Avenue, 10th Floor New York, NY 10017 (212) 885-0832 (212) 885-0815 American Jewish World Service 989 Avenue of the Americas, 10th Floor New York, NY 10018 (800) 889-7146 Africare 440 R Street, NW Washington, DC 20001 (202) 462-3614 American Red Cross ARC International Response Fund P.O. Box 37243 Washington, DC 20013 (800) HELP NOW (English) (800) 257-7575 (Spanish) American Refugee Committee 2344 Nicollet Avenue South, Suite 350 Minneapolis, MN 55404 (612) 872-7060 Baptist World Aid Africa Refugee Assistance 6733 Curran Street McLean, VA 22102-6005 (703) 790-8980 Brother's Brother Foundation 1501 Reedsdale Street Suite 3005 Pittsburgh, PA 15233-2341 (412) 321-3160 CARE Central Africa Crisis Response 151 Ellis Street, NE Atlanta, GA 30303-2439 (800) 521-CARE Catholic Relief Services P.O. Box 17090 Baltimore MD 21203-7090 (800) 736-3467 Christian Reformed World Relief Committee 2850 Kalamazoo Avenue SE Grand Rapids, MI 49560 (800) 55CRWRC Concern Worldwide USA 104 East 40th St., Room 903 New York NY 10016 (212) 557-8000 Direct Relief International 27 South La Patera Lane Santa Barbara, CA 93117 (805) 964-4767 Doctors Without Borders 11 East 26th Street, 19th Floor New York, NY 10010 (212) 679-6800 Doctors of the World 375 West Broadway, 4th Floor New York, NY 10012 (888) 817-HELP Food for the Hungry 7729 East Greenway Road Scottsdale, A

Copyright 1996 The Washington Post

268 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends;
This Is No Place Like Home

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE  

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 3;   Column 1;   Week in Review Desk  

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: GENEVA

A REFUGEE camp was once an easy thing to spot on the horizon, whether in Central America, the Middle East or Asia. There were neat rows of tents (or thatched huts or little mud-walled houses) with some larger structures bearing the logos of international relief organizations. There was a kind of order. But that was before wars among nations became longstanding lethal skirmishes among neighbors. That was before Bosnia, Rwanda, Chechnya. The camps and the lives of people in flight have changed with the metamorphosis of warfare. 
 "The classic refugee camp with the fence around it and a guard and a flag flying and so on, is less and less the norm," said Robert P. DeVecchi, the president of the International Rescue Committee, a leading American refugee organization for more than half a century. "You have huge populations like the ones who fled Rwanda into Zaire -- over a million people. That isn't a camp. That's a city." And it is but one of the many forms of refugee settlements today.

 
 
Where People Live
 Some Rwandans are living on volcanic rock fields almost devoid of water. Many Palestinians inhabit de facto towns that they have built up in more than a generation of displacement. Refugees from Cuba are living on U.S. military bases. And in Europe, many people in flight are just moving into other people's homes.
 Two weeks ago, the World Food Program began an emergency airlift with meals for up to a quarter of a million people from Chechnya who had taken refuge in north Ossetia, Ingushetia and Dagestan -- three new names on the map of the displaced. About half a million people, more than a third of Chechnya's population, have abandoned their homes, the United Nations says. At least 90 percent of those people, lacking even rudimentary camps, have found refuge with families in other republics.
 An astonishing 1 in every 115 people on earth is now on the run or in some kind of exile, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said last month. According to the count last month, 23 million refugees have fled across borders and another 26 million are displaced in their own countries.
 Africa has nearly 7.5 million refugees and many of the displaced; Asia has 5.7 million refugees and Europe 6 million, not including all of those who have been displaced within their own countries by ethnic partition, particularly in Bosnia. Another 2.3 million -- and an uncounted number of displaced -- are refugees in the former Soviet republics.
 With resettlement abroad now less and less likely, many desperate people seem to be becoming permanent wards of international agencies and private charities. Others are turning to illegal immigration, buying what one refugee official called "that $50 Angola air ticket to Brazil." From there, the road runs northward to the United States.
 At the offices of the High Commissioner for Refugees here in Geneva, it has been recognized for at least a decade that people in refugee settlements need to be retrained and persuaded to go home. Until its budget was cut in the late 1980's, the U.N.H.C.R. was developing projects to help men use their time in the camp more productively.
 While women in the camps tend to reproduce something like village life -- caring for children, cooking, housekeeping -- says Sylvana Foa, the spokeswoman for the High Commissioner, the men can't do the kind of work they did in the fields or shops. Many spend their time drinking and gambling.
 The agency is trying to find something useful for the men to do. This week, Ms. Foa was writing letters to international companies asking for experts -- mechanics from Volvo and appliance repairmen from European factories -- who would live in refugee camps and teach their skills for six-week stints, with expenses paid but no salary.
 The plan is to insure that when the refugees return home, they will not only be able to find jobs but will also be able to rebuild the shattered countries they fled. Ideally, they will avoid the kind of situation that faced the hundreds of thousands of Cambodian refugees who lived on the Thai border in the 1980's and finally returned home two years ago. The Cambodians were unprepared for the new kind of jobs that were in demand. So the United Nations recruited plumbers, electricians and other skilled workers from Thailand.
 For every Cambodian and Central American camp that has closed, dozens of refugee settlements have sprung up in the Balkans and in Africa, from Tanzania to Guinea. As experts look at these new communities and set up work programs, they are concerned about sending the wrong message -- that refugee camps are substitutes for permanent communities. Sadako Ogata, the High Commissioner for Refugees, said donor nations are now putting pressure on refugee officials to make sure that refugees are not housed indefinitely in camps.
 Experts are no longer dealing as much with the immediate crises that come with flight as with the long-range work that is known in the trade as "sustainable human development." That includes not only job training and literacy programs but also psychological help in overcoming trauma and in developing character and self-image.
 Liberian refugees in southern Guinea, who are, so far, only in temporary exile, have, for instance, set up schools with the seriousness of permanent residents. "With four expatriates and about $35 per person per year, a school program has been set up for about 60,000 Liberian children who are not in formal camps but in villages," according to Mr. DeVecchi of the International Rescue Committe. "The Liberians built their own schools. There are Liberian teachers and an all-Liberian curriculum."
 In other cases, people from mutually hostile communities are drawn together into cooperative work, with the idea that someday these people will have to go home and live together. The United Nations Development Program is bringing together Guatemalans, Salvadorans and Nicaraguans from opposite sides of civil wars to build houses, plant nurseries and begin other projects devised by the International Conference on Central American Refugees.
 Though many of these refugee settlements look like permanent villages, refugee workers are determined to hold out the hope that the displaced will one day resume a normal life. No development illustrates this more clearly than the emphasis on mental health. Roy Williams, who has worked with the International Rescue Committee in the former Yugoslavia, said that the trauma refugees face -- particularly when their communities have been torn apart by neighbor fighting neighbor -- inhibits their ability "to return to normalcy or even regard normalcy as something achievable.".
 "The elderly may have no world left to go back to," he said, "and the adolescents are very confused about what's going on." But while the despair may be worse, the refugees are now being prompted, in sessions guided by mental health professionals, to exorcise their demons -- "to talk about rape, violence and how come the fellow who lived next door to you for 20 years has suddenly tried to kill you."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a makeshift school, Rwandan refugee children use sticks as pencils and their legs as notebooks. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Those Who Have Fled Their Countries" Figures for the largest refugee programs monitored by the United Nations High Commissioner fot Refugees and how much they spent in 1994 in each area.

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company

270 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST 

Angelina Jolie: Refugee Policy Should Be Based on Facts, Not Fear; 
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: ANGELINA JOLIE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1010 words


HIGHLIGHT: When we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.

Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of terrorism themselves.
I'm proud of our country's history of giving shelter to the most vulnerable people. Americans have shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend culture, geography, ethnicity and religion. The decision to suspend the resettlement of refugees to the United States and deny entry to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our friends around the world precisely because of this record.
The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities. But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear.
As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee children who qualify for asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a compassionate America. And that we can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire countries -- even babies -- as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of geography or religion.
It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or that refugees are admitted to the United States without close scrutiny.
Refugees are in fact subject to the highest level of screening of any category of traveler to the United States. This includes months of interviews, and security checks carried out by the F.B.I., the National Counterterrorism Center, the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department.
Furthermore, only the most vulnerable people are put forward for resettlement in the first place: survivors of torture, and women and children at risk or who might not survive without urgent, specialized medical assistance. I have visited countless camps and cities where hundreds of thousands of refugees are barely surviving and every family has suffered. When the United Nations Refugee Agency identifies those among them who are most in need of protection, we can be sure that they deserve the safety, shelter and fresh start that countries like ours can offer.
And in fact only a minuscule fraction -- less than 1 percent -- of all refugees in the world are ever resettled in the United States or any other country. There are more than 65 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. Nine out of 10 refugees live in poor and middle-income countries, not in rich Western nations. There are 2.8 million Syrian refugees in Turkey alone. Only about 18,000 Syrians have been resettled in America since 2011.
This disparity points to another, more sobering reality. If we send a message that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to discriminate among them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire. We are lighting a fuse that will burn across continents, inviting the very instability we seek to protect ourselves against.
We are already living through the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with refugees. For generations American diplomats have joined the United Nations in urging those countries to keep their borders open, and to uphold international standards on the treatment of refugees. Many do just that with exemplary generosity.
What will be our response if other countries use national security as an excuse to start turning people away, or deny rights on the basis of religion? What could this mean for the Rohingya from Myanmar, or for Somali refugees, or millions of other displaced people who happen to be Muslim? And what does this do to the absolute prohibition in international law against discrimination on the grounds of faith or religion?
The truth is that even if the numbers of refugees we take in are small, and we do the bare minimum, we do it to uphold the United Nations conventions and standards we fought so hard to build after World War II, for the sake of our own security.
If we Americans say that these obligations are no longer important, we risk a free-for-all in which even more refugees are denied a home, guaranteeing more instability, hatred and violence.
If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are less worthy of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine the ideal of diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike: "America is committed to the world because so much of the world is inside America," in the words of Ronald Reagan. If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.
The lesson of the years we have spent fighting terrorism since Sept. 11 is that every time we depart from our values we worsen the very problem we are trying to contain. We must never allow our values to become the collateral damage of a search for greater security. Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating among them is not our way, and does not make us safer. Acting out of fear is not our way. Targeting the weakest does not show strength.
We all want to keep our country safe. So we must look to the sources of the terrorist threat -- to the conflicts that give space and oxygen to groups like the Islamic State, and the despair and lawlessness on which they feed. We have to make common cause with people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same threat and seeking the same security. This is where I would hope any president of our great nation would lead on behalf of all Americans.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Angelina Jolie, a filmmaker, is the special envoy of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY)

Related Articles

	A New Level of Refugee Suffering
	President Trump, Meet My Family
	Abandoned by America

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

274 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

January 9, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

EVENTS FOCUS ON REFUGEES' PLIGHT

BYLINE: Bill Smith Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1094 words

 
Varinta Khounphannavong said he fled from Laos last month to escape service inthe communist military.  Boris Iouioukine defected from the Soviet Union in September, leaving behind his wife, two children and a country that he both loved and hated.  And Jacob Masisi, a Moscow-educated chemist from South Africa, said his choice was simple: Begin a new life in America or remain in Africa and expose himself and his family to the possibility of execution at the hands of a South African ''murder squad.'' The three men were among about 100 refugees who took part Sunday in a Migration Week Mass at St. Joseph Shrine, 1220 North 11th Street.  They are among 226 people who came to the United States last year under the sponsorship of the Catholic Charities of St. Louis Refugee Center, according to Richard Hayde, associate director for refugee services for the center.  ''These are people who cannot return to their country for fear of persecution, for religious or political reasons,'' Hayde said.  The Mass on Sunday and other Migration Week events, Hayde said, are part of an effort to make area residents more sensitive to the plights of refugees.  Masisi, 41, a native of South Africa, said he had lived for the past few years in the tiny kingdom of Lesotho, which is surrounded by South Africa. He said he had lectured there against South Africa's policy of apartheid and had felt increasingly threatened by the possibility of South African reprisal. Masisi said his name was included on a list of people that the South African government had asked Lesotho officials to expel from their country.  Friends and neighbors were killed by what he says are government-sponsored ''murder squads.'' He said he was so worried that he had spent the last months of his life in Lesotho moving from the home of one friend to another, in an effort to make himself a more elusive target.  ''I felt very soon they would be catching up with me,'' he said.  Even though he still has been unable to find work in the St. Louis area, Masisi called the United States ''a country that abounds in opportunities.'' ''My life hasn't really come together; I am still struggling,'' he said.  ''When you don't have a job, life becomes difficult.'' Hayde, with Catholic Charities, said Sunday that his group helps the refugees find affordable housing - usually in areas of south St. Louis - gets basic furnishings and other household items for them and assists them in finding employment.  The group has served more than 1,600 refugees since 1981, he said.  Iouioukine, 37, also remains unemployed, although he can speak seven languages.  A former interpreter for the Soviet petrochemical industry in Ethiopia, Iouioukine said his run-ins with Soviet officials had begun early.  While working in Ethiopia, he said, he was reprimanded for associating with Ethiopians and Indians. At one point, he said, he was seriously injured in an automobile accident in Ethiopia while running an errand as part of his job.  Soviet officials were more concerned about the food and jewelry they had sent him to buy than they were about his health, he said.  Eventually, he said, he was returned to the Soviet Union, but he then sought asylum at the American embassy in a trip to Greece.  ''I didn't want to leave my country,'' he said. ''But things were very bad there. I didn't desert my family; I'm going to bring them here.'' Iouioukine, who comes from the Russian city of Krasnodar near the Black Sea, said he had nothing but praise for the United States and its people.  ''So many people took part in helping me settle here,'' he said. ''I didn't expect so much.  ''We are told that people are very business-minded here, that there is much crime and unemployment,'' he said. ''I never expected people to be so humane, so kind.'' Khounphannavong sat in a basement hall of St. Joseph's Sunday afternoon with three fellow Laotians, all of whom had left their country to avoid being pressed into military service.  His father, a soldier, had fought against the communists and was killed by communists in 1977, Khounphannavong said.  ' 'I didn't want to be a soldier - not for the communists,'' he said softly in broken English.  Nhan Thi Nguyen, 53, a Vietnamese refugee, said she had been in St. Louis and the United States only one month. Her English, too, is rough, but her message is clear.  ''No freedom in Vietnam,'' she said. ''I go to America for freedom.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) by Gary Bohn/Post-Dispatch...Cay Nguyen holding her daughter, Nguyen Anh Thu, after a Mass Sunday at the Shrine of St. Joseph, 1220 North 11th Street. At left is Cay Nguyen's sister, Huong Nguyen.

Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

276 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

September 28, 1999, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 1048 words

 
 
Head of Miss America Pageant is abruptly fired
The head of the Miss America Pageant was abruptly fired from his $ 250,000-a-year job following a controversial decision by the pageant board to drop a longtime ban on contestants who have been married or had abortions. Robert L. Beck, 60, who took over as CEO of the Miss America Organization last year, was released from his three-year contract Sunday night, according to David Frisch, chairman of the pageant's board of directors. Frisch issued a one-paragraph statement, which didn't say why Beck was fired but did say that a national search for a replacement was to begin immediately. Pageant spokesman John Healy would not say whether Beck was fired because of the change in rules, which has been put on hold pending talks with the states. The Miss America Organization is the nonprofit charity that operates the famous beauty pageant. 
 
Clinton delays deportation of Liberian refugees
On Monday, President Bill Clinton issued a one-year deferment of deportation for Liberian refugees who fled their war-torn homeland, saying he felt other countries would deport Liberians if the United States did. About 15,000 Liberians live in the United States under a temporary protection program, first granted in 1991, when large numbers of people fled civil war in the African country. About 4,000 Liberian refugees live in Rhode Island alone. The protected status, extended six times, was set to expire today. Liberian citizens would have had to receive a new visa, become permanent U.S. residents or return home. Clinton said even though conditions in Liberia have improved since the civil war ended in 1996, the political and economic situation remains fragile.
 
Tobacco auctions resume in North Carolina
The flue-cured tobacco market opened on Monday, the first time since Hurricane Floyd began its devastating run through eastern North Carolina. Scores of farmers and buyers in Wilson packed Growers Warehouse, one of the many venues where tobacco is auctioned daily from August to November. It closed when the storm loomed offshore and remained suspended for six days because of flooding and road closures. Many farmers were forced to switch to backup generators to keep the fans and drying units running for the tobacco when Floyd struck Sept. 16. State agriculture officials haven't yet assessed losses from damaged tobacco crops, although ripe and unripe leaf prices were 20 cents or more per pound higher Monday than they were when the market closed.
 
Ex-lawyer for Chiquita sues Cincinnati newspaper
A former lawyer for Chiquita sued The Cincinnati Enquirer on Monday, accusing the newspaper of breaking a promise by identifying him as a source for its expose of the banana company. George G. Ventura claims former Enquirer reporters Michael Gallagher and Cameron McWhirter promised him confidentiality - with management's knowledge - in exchange for inside information about Chiquita Brands International Inc. Ventura said the reporters violated that promise by secretly taping conversations with him and later identifying him to Chiquita and law enforcement authorities. Ventura is seeking unspecified punitive and compensatory damages. His federal lawsuit accuses the Enquirer and its parent, the Gannett Co., of breach of contract, fraud and negligence. In May 1998, The Enquirer published a series of stories suggesting that Cincinnati-based Chiquita engaged in improper business practices overseas.
 
Nun told to halt ministry to gays says she will obey
A nun ordered by the Vatican to cease her ministry to gay and lesbian Roman Catholics says she will obey the order but will work within the church to have it reversed. Sister Jeannine Gramick said in a statement that she believes it "more beneficial" to minister to homosexuals with the church's blessing than without it. Gramick, 57, and the Rev. Robert Nugent, the founders of New Ways Ministry in Mt. Rainier, Md., were summoned to Rome in July and ordered to stop their work. The Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith said that Nugent and Gramick "have caused confusion among the Roman Catholic people and have harmed the community of the church." It called their teachings "erroneous and dangerous." In late July, Nugent said he would stop ministering to homosexuals.
 
Army offers incentives to help attract new recruits
As the U.S. military ends its most difficult recruiting year since the post-Vietnam 1970s, the Army is offering $ 6,000 - on top of other bonuses and scholarships - to men and women who join up before Friday The Army is about 6,300 recruits short. The Air Force, too, expects to fall short by about 1,700 of the enlistees needed to maintain current levels. The Navy expects to meet its needs after a big shortfall last year, but only after accepting more personnel who failed to finish high school and stepping up recruitment and bonus programs. Only Marine recruiters, with flashy TV spots on shows featuring extreme sports, say their hard-line approach has quite successfully maintained "product appeal." The other services are struggling in a time of increased job opportunities outside the military, post-baby-boom reductions in military-age populations and record college enrollment. Shrinking the military services also has resulted in shrinking interest among young Americans in joining the 1.4 million-member all-v olunteer forces.
 
California fire destroys 5-mile swath of homes
George Anstead gazed at the ruins of his uninsured home of 47 years Monday and wondered if he should have stayed behind and tried to save it from the grass fire that swept though the area. Anstead and at least 36 other residents of the semirural Happy Valley area of California lost their homes to the blaze that pushed through a five-mile swath of modest houses, ranchettes and mobile homes Sunday. The fire started Sunday morning as three separate blazes and merged into one, rushing over shallow canyons covered with oaks and brittle grass to scorch 2,000 acres. About 500 to 700 people were ordered to leave their property Sunday. The fire was contained early Monday, and firefighters spent the day searching for hot spots just southwest of Redding, 170 miles north of Sacramento.     

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Markus Curtiss, 7, sits in the trunk of his family's car Monday after returning to the burned remains of his home in Happy Valley, Calif. A fire that began Sunday destroyed about 37 homes and forced evacuation of more than 500 before being contained.

TYPE: Nation Briefs Column

Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

277 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times - International Edition

June 5, 2017 Monday

What We Lose by Barring Refugees; 
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: ANTONY J. BLINKEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1080 words

ABSTRACT
After the most recent London attacks, President Trump doubled down on his call for a travel ban. But that ban has never really been about security. 

FULL TEXT
President Trump's eruption of tweets in response to the London terror attacks doubled down on his self-described travel ban: "We need the courts to give us back our rights. We need the travel ban as an extra level of safety!"
Mr. Trump knows that banning travel to the United States from a half dozen Muslim-majority countries would do nothing to enhance our security - and everything to undermine it. The threat we face is mostly home grown. The perpetrators of recent attacks in Britain, France and Belgium were all citizens or longtime residents of those countries - and none of those attackers would have been subject to the ban had they wanted to bring terrorism to the United States. By alienating Muslim communities and our closest allies, Mr. Trump would destroy the partnerships we need to effectively fight terror. 
Mr. Trump's travel ban has never really been about security. Rather, it's the tip of the spear in a much broader battle: to drastically curtail immigration to the United States that is changing the complexion of our country. One week before the London attacks, Mr. Trump waged his latest offensive in that effort at the meeting of the Group of 7 leading economic powers.
Taormina, the Sicilian coastal city that hosted the G7, has long been a playground for the jet set. But Italy chose the locale to spotlight a different dimension of the human condition: the hundreds of thousands of refugees who, in desperation, put their lives on the line to cross the Mediterranean from North Africa and the Middle East every year.
While Mr. Trump's pronouncements on trade and climate change drew most of the attention, behind the scenes the drama over migration policy was just as intense - and just as far-reaching in its consequences.
We are in the midst of the largest wave of human displacement since World War II. Around the world, 65 million people - including 21 million refugees - are on the move, forced from home by war, violence, economic deprivation and climate change. If they all came together in one country, it would be about the size of Britain. Instead, they are spread across the planet - putting pressure on national borders; straining budgets, infrastructure and social services; reshaping economies and communities; affecting our sense of security; but most of all challenging us to live up to our common humanity.
Italy hoped the G7 would issue a detailed stand-alone policy statement and emphasize the obligation of developed nations to resettle more migrants and refugees, who on average spend 10 years away from their home countries. Most G7 members rallied behind Italy's action plan and conviction that a global problem demands a global response.
The United States said no. The White House scuttled the stand-alone statement and sought to water down any migration references in the summit conference's final communiqu - especially language that implied an obligation to take in more refugees. Only a furious effort by Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of Italy preserved a bare-minimum mention of Italy's proposed migration plan in the communiqu. That plan would have committed the G7 to find more permanent homes for refugees, increase financial assistance and support schooling for children and jobs for adults.
Back home, the Trump administration seeks to halve the number of refugees admitted each year while pressing its travel ban, which has been struck down by federal courts and may soon wind up before the Supreme Court. It has proposed draconian budget cuts for humanitarian and development assistance, diplomacy and the United Nations - whose agencies play a key role in supporting refugees and their host communities. And Mr. Trump returned from the G7 just in time to walk away from the Paris climate accord.
This completes Washington's own perilous journey: In less than one year, it has gone from mobilizing the international community in search of solutions to the migration crisis to a total abdication of leadership.
Just nine months ago, President Obama convened a special leaders summit meeting on refugees during the United Nations General Assembly. Fifty-two countries made commitments to increase their financial contributions to international humanitarian organizations by $4.5 billion over 2015 levels, double the number of refugees they resettle, and improve access to education for one million refugee children and to lawful work for one million adults. As well, 50 leading American companies committed to provide education opportunities for 80,000 refugees and employment possibilities for 200,000.
And the United States did more to lead by example, raising the ceiling on annual refugee admissions to 110,000, including 10,000 Syrians. That was not enough, but it was a step toward reclaiming America's place as the last best hope on earth.
That hope gave life to my own family, as it did so many generations of new Americans.
My father's father fled a pogrom in Russia in the early 20th century and was welcomed to the United States. So was my stepmother, who escaped as a young girl from Communist Hungary in 1950.
And then there was my stepfather, one of 900 children in his school in Bialystok, Poland, but the only one to survive the Holocaust, after four years in the concentration camps.
At the end of the war he made a break from a death march, into the Bavarian woods. Days later, he heard the rumbling sound of a tank and looked out from his hiding place. Instead of the dreaded swastika, he saw a five-pointed white star. He ran to the star. The tank's hatch opened and a large African-American soldier looked down at him. He fell to his knees and said the only three words in English that he knew, taught to him by his mother: God bless America. The G.I. lifted him into the tank, into America, into freedom.
That's who we are. That's what America represents to the world, however imperfectly. And that's what we now risk losing, piece by piece, with an administration that would keep that tank hatch slammed shut.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
Antony J. Blinken (@ABlinken), a managing director of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, was a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration and is a contributing opinion writer.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

282 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 21, 2014 Friday

Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015

LENGTH: 541  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:
Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015 Back to Top
Memorandum for the Secretary of State Back to Top 
In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the "Act") (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions:
The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of 100 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members):
 Africa  17,000  
 East Asia  13,000  
 Europe and Central Asia  1,000  
 Latin America and Caribbean  4,000  
 Near East and South Asia  33,000  
 Unallocated Reserve  2,000  
The 2,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises.
Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2015, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence:
a. Persons in Cuba
b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics
c. Persons in Iraq
d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador
e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location
You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register. 
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

295 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

July 16, 2016 Saturday

Refugees of South Sudan crisis could surpass 1 million this year

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 261 words

JUBA, South Sudan * The number of South Sudanese refugees in East Africa could pass 1 million this year, the United Nations refugee agency said Friday, calling on armed groups to allow safe passage for people fleeing the latest fighting. 
There is concern about fresh outflows of refugees following military clashes in recent days in the capital, Juba, said Ann Encontre, a UN refugee co-ordinator in South Sudan. She appealed for $701 million in relief aid.
"They are supposed to be the generation of tomorrow, the generation that will lead and rebuild their country, but right now, they are suffering enormously," she said. "They have been deprived of a normal life."
Even before the resurgence of violence in the past week, hundreds of thousands of refugees had been sheltering in Uganda, Sudan, Ethiopia and elsewhere since civil war began in December 2013.
But there are new reports that South Sudan authorities are blocking some citizens, including those with U.S. or Canadian dual nationality, from leaving the country.
Opposing army factions have clashed in Juba over the past week, with forces backing President Salva Kiir pushing many opposition forces out of their bases in the city and bombing the home of former rebel leader Riek Machar, who is now the country's first vice-president.
The fighting has threatened a peace deal reached in August to end the civil war between supporters of Kiir and Machar that left tens of thousands dead. It called for a transitional government that included members of both sides. !@COPYRIGHT= 2016 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

297 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

March 18, 1983, Friday, Final Edition

Balancing the 'Brain Drain'
An Illiterate Ethiopian Gets Ready for St. Louis

BYLINE: By David B. Ottaway, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: First Section; General News; A30

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: GEDAREF, Sudan

Getchew Garad seems an unlikely candidate to become a resident of St. Louis. But that is where he's headed in several months, although he doesn't know it yet.
Getchew is illiterate even in his own Amharic language. He is a seasonal farm worker turned nickel-and-dime trader and lives with his wife, Enanu, their baby and assorted chickens in a traditional Ethiopian tukal, a round thatched hut with a dirt floor. 
America is as far away as the moon from the life he has known eking out a meager existence in the rugged and often drought-plagued Ethiopian highlands.
But Getchew, 27, has one thing going for him. He is a "political refugee" from the revolutionary turmoil in Ethiopia, and that has earned him a ticket to the United States--thanks to a new resettlement program for a few Africans under the 1980 Refugee Act.
Ethiopians reportedly account for two-thirds of all those now being chosen for the 3,000 to 3,500 annual quota of refugees from Africa. Some come from centers in Sudan, others from Somalia, Djibouti and Kenya or simply as individual applicants at U.S. embassies.
This is because the revolution in Ethiopia, which toppled the late emperor Haile Selassie in 1974, has created close to a million refugees--the largest group from any African country. Of this number, 440,000 are here in eastern Sudan and most of the others in Somalia.
So far, about 2,000 Ethiopians have been resettled in U.S. communities and another 2,000 are waiting to go, according to Kevin Noonan, who heads the Joint Voluntary Agency in Khartoum, the group in charge of registering candidates to be interviewed by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The agency, funded by the State Department, works on behalf of 16 U.S. voluntary organizations involved in helping refugees get settled.
Many of the Ethiopians who are chosen speak English, are well educated and are highly skilled. But to avoid accusations of bias or contributing to the "brain drain" of Africa, the immigration service also is taking some Ethiopians like Getchew, who have no skills and neither read nor write.
Noonan and others here in Gedaref administering a four-month course in basic English and "cultural orientation" for the Ethiopian immigrants say those with skills and language expertise make out fine once they arrive in the United States. But they say no study has been done yet on those who have neither.
Although no one says so for the record, there are serious reservations among program administrators here about the wisdom of sending illiterate Ethiopian peasants to fend for themselves in the United States.
Getchew seems to have no reservations, however, even though he still hasn't been told where he is going in the United States. He hears from two friends who went last year that life in America is good, "if you work," although one of them, he says, is still without a job.
"Everything will be okay if I can find a job and learn to speak and write," Getchew said through an interpreter.
"I leave Sudan for security," he said. "I don't care about the difficulties so long as I'm secure."
Getchew has forgotten most of the English he learned a few months ago, but he remembers he has to add eight days to the Ethiopian calendar to get the right date in the Gregorian one. His wife is just starting to speak her first words in English.
When she finishes the orientation course in April, they will be off to the United States. Upon arrival, they will be aided at first by the American Council for Nationalities Services in settling in, finding a job and getting into a school.
Then they will be on their own, like millions of other immigrants before them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, Ethiopian refugee Getchew Garad stands outside his hut with his wife, Enanu Menelik, and their baby boy. By Steve Hindy for The Washington Post

Copyright 1983 The Washington Post

298 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

July 16, 2013, Tuesday

Minority community in Texas grieves death

BYLINE: Diane Smith, Fort Worth Star-Telegram

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P12A

LENGTH: 1371 words

FORT WORTH, Texas - Life for the ethnic minority Bantu people from Somalia has meant a steady stream of danger, whether from armed militiamen, wild animals or disease-infested refugee camps.
Children were taught from an early age to survive. When in the path of a lion, stand tall. Don't panic. Don't run.
"The danger of Africa, we were prepared for it," said Ahmed Omar, a Somali Bantu who fled the war-torn country and moved to Fort Worth.
After the State Department began resettling Bantu refugees in America in 1999, dozens of families ended up living at an apartment complex in southeast Fort Worth. 
But rather than finding peace, they encountered more heartbreak, this time from a predator for which they were unprepared.
Last month, Somali refugee Sida Osman - described by all as a charming and happy 5-year-old boy - was beaten to death with a bowling ball.
A 13-year-old boy from the neighborhood was arrested on a capital murder warrant and remains in custody.
Sida had been playing outside on the evening of June 26 and was last seen riding his bike.
His lifeless body was found the next day in the backyard of a nearby vacant house.
The suspect, who is not being identified because he is a juvenile, told police that he and Sida went into the fenced backyard in the 4800 block of Lois Street. The teen became irritated with Sida and hit him multiple times in the head, police said.
"Right now, what we see is a 5-year-old baby who is dead," Mohamed Bulle, president of the Tarrant County Somali Bantu Association of Texas, said through an interpreter. "He didn't do nothing wrong."
Sida's family and friends are left to wonder what lesson they missed, what they could have done to protect him.
Many of the local Bantus grew up in Kenyan refugee camps, one of many stops in their search for a peaceful life. As they mourn Sida's death, some can only wonder whether they'll ever find that place.
"My heart went out to the family," said Myra Den-ton, a neighbor who offered condolences to Sida's mother. "They were trying to find a safe place when they came to America."
Sida's family made it to Webber Garden, a complex near Pate Elementary School, thanks to relief agencies that aid refugees.
As war and genocide have ravaged countries such as Sudan and Somalia, local agencies - namely World Relief, Refugee Services of Texas and Catholic Charities - have tried to find new homes for the displaced in Fort Worth and Dallas.
Once in North Texas, many stayed because they found work, including at Dallas/Fort Worth Airport, or formed strong communities.
From 2004 through 2008, about 13,000 Somali Bantus resettled in various states, including Texas, Kansas, Maine and Missouri. Somali Bantu communities emerged in Fort Worth, Arlington and Dallas; a group in Amarillo has ties to the Fort Worth community.
Community leaders said about 70 Somali Bantu families live in the Webber Garden complex or nearby, a gathering that began in 2005.
The community includes elders who grew up in Somalia, others who grew up in refugee camps and youngsters born in the United States.
Couples have many children, often five to 10. Sida had four brothers and a sister.
Many of the Bantus in Fort Worth were resettled by the local office of World Relief, a Christian-based organization that helps with employment, case management and immigration so refugees can get green cards or become U.S. citizens.
"Our goal is to connect them with community members through churches," said Jeff Demers, office director at World Relief in Fort Worth.
Most Bantu men found work at DFW Airport, driving buses, cleaning airplanes and working as custodians, said Hussein Muday, who lives at Webber Garden.
Most of the women, who still wear colorful African dresses and robes, stay home to care for youngsters, many of whom attend Pate.
Charles Hamilton, an apartment resident who has embraced the Bantus, said that when they moved in, he was drawn to his kitchen window by a procession of people dressed in brightly colored clothes.
"I saw all these people in all these colors," Hamilton said. "I said, 'Where did they come from?' "
Sharon Armstrong has helped the Bantus and other African refugees for eight years through her work with SEARCH, or Southeast Area Churches.
"A lot of people were not familiar with running water," she said.
Armstrong said she worked to build ties with the low-income and working-class Americans who are the Bantus' neighbors.
"The cultures sort of clashed a little bit," she said. "Being from Africa is a lot different than being poor in America."
Several years ago, Armstrong said, SEARCH organized a meet-and-greet at Pate Park. The Bantus brought African dishes, and their Fort Worth neighbors brought American food, she said.
Armstrong said the University of North Texas helped put together a booklet that informed the neighborhood about the cultural challenges the Bantus face.
The Bantus at Webber Garden are a tight-knit group, with youngsters often moving back and forth among apartments.
Older relatives speak their native language, while the young ones converse in English.
Resident Mohamed Hamza, 33, said the children are lucky to be in the United States.
"They are not in a refugee camp," said Hamza, whose family left Somalia when he was a child. "Whoever is not a refugee, he can go wherever he wants."
Still, life in America has its challenges for the Bantus at Webber Garden.
The girls are singled out by other young people because of their hijab, a headscarf worn by Muslim women. Some recalled stones being thrown at their apartments when they moved in.
After Sida's death, frustrations boiled over.
Community members took to the streets, shouting "Peace and justice!" Others carried signs saying, "We need peace" and "We are here legally."
A suspect is in custody, but many Bantus remain terrified.
"We are wondering what we are going to do right now," said Bulle, the Somali Bantu Association president. "We understand that here is not safe."
(EDITORS: STORY CAN END HERE)
Hamilton, the neighbor, said the Bantus are hesitant to call police because they learned to fear the authorities in Somalia.
A loud banging at the door can create a wave of fear in a Bantu home, he said.
But there have also been moments of kindness toward the refugees.
When Sida went missing, several women who are not part of the Bantu community helped search for him.
"They were really scared for him," Hamilton said.
Church groups came in to pray and offer assistance.
Many Bantus praised Hamilton, who has always made them feel welcome.
When they arrived in 2005, he organized a grass-roots drive to collect beds, pots, pans and other items for them. In the years since, Hamilton has remained a friend.
When new refugees arrive at Webber Garden, they know to "ask Mr. Charles."
Bantus survived a civil war.
"They were raping our families," said Ayub Ibrahim, a Somali Bantu who lives in Dallas. "They were killing us."
And they made it out of Kenyan refugee camps.
Now, after Sida's death, they wonder whether they can find sanctuary anywhere.
"We don't know where we are going to be," Bulle said. "We are just scared a lot."
A CLOSER LOOK
Somalia is an East African country that borders the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. It sits east of Ethiopia. Somalia has been marked by violence and instability since the central government collapsed in 1991. In January, the U.S. government recognized the Somali government for the first time since 1991. But the United States does not have a diplomatic presence there. The Bantus are a distinct group of refugees out of the many who have fled Somalia since the 1990s. They are descendants of slaves taken from southeast Africa in the Indian Ocean slave trade. They are descended from Bantu-speaking tribes that originated in Tanzania, Mozambique and Malawi. In Somalia, the Bantus were agricultural workers who lived in the south. After civil war broke out, they were forced to leave. Thousands ended up in refugee camps in Kenya.
Sources: U.S. State Department, Immigration and Refugee Services of America
MCT photo
Mohamed Hamza (from left), Mohamed Bulle and Hussein Muday talk about the death of 5-year-old Sida Osman, who was beaten to death with a bowling ball, outside the Webber Garden apartments in Fort Worth, Texas, July 2.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers

304 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times - International Edition

February 2, 2017 Thursday

Angelina Jolie: Refugee Policy Should Be Based on Facts, Not Fear; 
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: ANGELINA JOLIE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1001 words

ABSTRACT
When we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves. 

FULL TEXT
Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of terrorism themselves.
I'm proud of our country's history of giving shelter to the most vulnerable people. Americans have shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend culture, geography, ethnicity and religion. The decision to suspend the resettlement of refugees to the United States and deny entry to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our friends around the world precisely because of this record.
The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities. But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear. 
As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee children who qualify for asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a compassionate America. And that we can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire countries - even babies - as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of geography or religion.
It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or that refugees are admitted to the United States without close scrutiny.
Refugees are in fact subject to the highest level of screening of any category of traveler to the United States. This includes months of interviews, and security checks carried out by the F.B.I., the National Counterterrorism Center, the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department.
Furthermore, only the most vulnerable people are put forward for resettlement in the first place: survivors of torture, and women and children at risk or who might not survive without urgent, specialized medical assistance. I have visited countless camps and cities where hundreds of thousands of refugees are barely surviving and every family has suffered. When the United Nations Refugee Agency identifies those among them who are most in need of protection, we can be sure that they deserve the safety, shelter and fresh start that countries like ours can offer.
And in fact only a minuscule fraction - less than 1 percent - of all refugees in the world are ever resettled in the United States or any other country. There are more than 65 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. Nine out of 10 refugees live in poor and middle-income countries, not in rich Western nations. There are 2.8 million Syrian refugees in Turkey alone. Only about 18,000 Syrians have been resettled in America since 2011.
This disparity points to another, more sobering reality. If we send a message that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to discriminate among them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire. We are lighting a fuse that will burn across continents, inviting the very instability we seek to protect ourselves against.
We are already living through the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with refugees. For generations American diplomats have joined the United Nations in urging those countries to keep their borders open, and to uphold international standards on the treatment of refugees. Many do just that with exemplary generosity.
What will be our response if other countries use national security as an excuse to start turning people away, or deny rights on the basis of religion? What could this mean for the Rohingya from Myanmar, or for Somali refugees, or millions of other displaced people who happen to be Muslim? And what does this do to the absolute prohibition in international law against discrimination on the grounds of faith or religion?
The truth is that even if the numbers of refugees we take in are small, and we do the bare minimum, we do it to uphold the United Nations conventions and standards we fought so hard to build after World War II, for the sake of our own security.
If we Americans say that these obligations are no longer important, we risk a free-for-all in which even more refugees are denied a home, guaranteeing more instability, hatred and violence.
If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are less worthy of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine the ideal of diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike: "America is committed to the world because so much of the world is inside America," in the words of Ronald Reagan. If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.
The lesson of the years we have spent fighting terrorism since Sept. 11 is that every time we depart from our values we worsen the very problem we are trying to contain. We must never allow our values to become the collateral damage of a search for greater security. Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating among them is not our way, and does not make us safer. Acting out of fear is not our way. Targeting the weakest does not show strength.
We all want to keep our country safe. So we must look to the sources of the terrorist threat - to the conflicts that give space and oxygen to groups like the Islamic State, and the despair and lawlessness on which they feed. We have to make common cause with people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same threat and seeking the same security. This is where I would hope any president of our great nation would lead on behalf of all Americans.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
Angelina Jolie, a filmmaker, is the special envoy of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

306 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

May 7, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ETHNIC ALBANIAN REFUGEES WILL RELOCATE ACROSS THE U.S.

BYLINE: Deb Riechmann; The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A13

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 
From Kosovo to Kansas. Tented camps in Macedonia to high-rises in Manhattan. Up to 20,000 ethnic Albanians expelled from Serbia are coming to the United States - and to the Americans getting ready to take them in.
In Gardner, Kan., Kurt Hoffman, who gets teary-eyed when he sees the refugees' plight on television, is straightening up his finished basement to house a family from Kosovo. 
With her youngest son away at college, Rita Huebner and her husband have two empty bedrooms at their small house in Sherwood, Ohio. "I thought if they would only come to America, I could help them," says Huebner. Over the years they have been host for 14 foreign exchange students. "I asked my husband and he said, 'No problem.'"
New York restaurant owner Dine Rraci doesn't know when - or even if - his 65-year-old mother and six other relatives from Kosovo will come to America, but he's got apartments and jobs waiting.
"My mother doesn't want to leave at all," Rraci said, adding that his other relatives are eager to get out of the refugee camps but probably would return to Kosovo if peace was restored.
After weeks of trying to reach his relatives in refugee camps, Rraci finally spoke on the phone with his mother. "Are you Momma?" he asked, quizzing her about family details. Then he ended the call when relatives told him how Yugoslav forces raped and stabbed a woman he knew.
"I had to hang up the phone. I can't take it. I don't want to hear these things," Rraci said.
On Wednesday, 453 refugees arrived at Fort Dix, N.J. Another was born Thursday, a boy, the first child for Lebibe Karaliju, 21, and her husband, Naim Karaliju, 28. The father is thinking of naming the baby "America."
An additional 400 are expected today and 800 more are scheduled to arrive early next week. On Saturday, 100 to 200 refugees, who are being sponsored by relatives in the United States, are scheduled to land in New York.
The U.S. government is giving the ethnic Albanians from Kosovo refugee status, which allows them to work and gain access to some social services. They can stay in America and eventually apply for U.S. citizenship, or return to Kosovo.
"They're coming rather quickly from trauma to resettlement," says Richard Parkins, who is with Episcopal Migration Ministries, one of 10 U.S. refugee resettlement agencies helping the people from Kosovo. "I think we're going to get people who are very distraught - in a state of shock."
The refugees will be placed with relatives, host families, or in houses and apartments arranged by the agencies.
Some will live in Albanian communities in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut."This can be temporary, or it could be permanent," says Ron Lambert, 46, of Des Moines, Iowa, who has volunteered in the past to help refugees from Southeast Asia, Africa and Bosnia.
 
"Paper or plastic?"
Some refugees eventually go home. Others like life in Des Moines and stay, Lambert said, recalling how he helped two Bosnian teens get their first jobs bagging groceries. He says one of the first English phrases they learned was: "Paper or plastic?"
Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute in St. Louis, said it was her understanding that the refugees initially would be placed only with U.S. relatives and not with volunteer hosts. After that, she said, the traditional route of resettling refugees in small mutual-support clusters would be followed, as was done for Bosnian Muslim refugees in cities such as St. Louis where no Bosnian community previously existed.
Crosslin said it would be two to three weeks before the Institute would be notifified if any refugees might come to St. Louis.
 
St. Louis has a small Albanian community of up to 500 families.  

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Endonita Hajzeraj, 4, kisses her baby doll as she walks at the refugee camp Thursday at Fort Dix, N.J. Kosovar refugees relaxed after their 13-hour flight from Macedonia on Wednesday.  

Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

307 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

March 15, 1982, Monday, Final Edition

Why Are We Locking Up Haitians?

BYLINE: William Raspberry

SECTION: First Section; Op-Ed; A15

LENGTH: 713 words

"Racism" is a charge that is used so offhandedly that it has lost much of its impact.
Yet it's hard to think of another way of describing America's treatment of the Haitian refugees. Judge Robert Carter, of the U.S. District Court in Manhattan, came close to calling it by the right name when he ruled last Friday in favor of eight Haitian "boat
people" who had been refused parole by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's New York office.
"The parole results during (Charles) Sava's tenure since July 1981 as New York district director (of the immigration service) demonstrate a gross maldistribution of releases," the judge said. 
"Of 86 Haitians whose applications he received, Sava paroled five, all pregnant women. Of 91 non-Haitian applications, 90 were released." That record, said Carter, shows "invidious racial- or national-origin-based discrimination."
Jesse Jackson, who in the last two weeks has discussed the problem with the pope, with the U.S. Catholic Conference and with the State Department, says it more plainly:
"It's racism. You look at the combination of concentration camps for Haitians and the overt cozying up to South Africa, and the official pattern becomes clear."
John McCarthy, executive director of the Catholic Conference's migration and refugee service, sees the scandalous treatment of the Haitian refugees as "a terrible disaster, a scar on our nation--the first time this sort of thing has happened since the start of World War II, when we did it to the Japanese."
What McCarthy and the others are talking about is the incarceration--in jails, in prisons and in squalid camps-- of some 2,000 Haitian refugees, most of them claiming to be political refugees, a status which would lead to their asylum here. The official U.S. line is that they are economic refugees and not entitled to asylum.
"It's a distinction without a difference, in substance or in history," Jackson contends. "The Poles are economic refugees. Solidarity is a labor union. Nowhere have the Poles said that they wish to change their form of government. They remain communists. Yet we classify them as political refugees and let them in."
McCarthy makes a similar point. "It's very difficult to buy this economic-political distinction," he said. "These (Haitians) are desperately poor people with no rights whatever. And there really aren't that many of them. Only 50 came in during January. Perhaps as many as 50,000 Mexicans cross the border every day. How many of them are in jail?"
The official explanation is that the Mexicans who come here illegally are caught only after they have gotten in and taken jobs, and that they rarely resist deportation (though many of them quickly return). The Haitians, on the other hand, are intercepted at the border, and, instead of returning voluntarily, claim refugee status.
McCarthy has heard the arguments, and he dismisses them--on economic as well as racial grounds.
"We believe the idea of keeping these refugees in hard-rock prisons is morally wrong. These are lovely people, posing no (crime) problem at all. And it costs a lot of money--maybe $2 million a month--to keep them locked up. That's my money they're throwing away, and yet the administration keeps saying we have to reduce federal expenditures."
McCarthy says he has proposed to take custody of the locked-up Haitians and let the savings go toward developing jobs in Haiti, thereby reducing the incentive for the life-risking boat rides to America. "We aren't new at this," he said. " We have handled a million displacees--10,000 Southeast Asians in September alone. We have offered, in writing, to take these refugees and find them homes and jobs at no cost to the government. The government says it has a problem, and we offer a solution. We'll take them off their hands."
It sounds like an offer no penny- pinching government could refuse. But McCarthy says the only response he has had was from an immigration official who said it was necessary to continue the present policy "as a deterrent."
"In a different context, you might say Gethsemane was a deterrent," McCarthy said. "What they are doing is just morally offensive. I can't tell you why they are doing it. But I don't see any white faces among the detainees."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1982 The Washington Post

308 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

January 7, 2018 Sunday  
Regional Edition

A stealth attack on national identity

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 594 words

When President Trump capped the number of refugee admissions at 45,000 over the fiscal year that began in October - just over half the number admitted in President Barack Obama's last full year in office - it was seen as a setback for hard-liners such as Stephen Miller, the White House's domestic policy chief, who wanted to set the limit drastically lower, possibly even at zero, and a victory for moderates in the Pentagon, State Department and elsewhere. That interpretation now looks flawed.
By means of an array of bureaucratic maneuvers, plus a security review  of key countries ordered by Mr. Trump in late October, refugee admissions have plummeted to levels unseen in modern memory - and, for the first quarter of the current fiscal year, just a fifth the roughly 25,000 admitted in the same period a year earlier. At current trends, advocates say, the United States may grant entry to fewer than half the 45,000 refugees specified by Mr. Trump's limit; if so, it would be the lowest number   since the current program was established in 1980. 
That would render obsolete the assertion still in place on the  website of the State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration that boasts that America welcomes almost two-thirds of refugees settled in third countries, "more than all other resettlement countries combined." And it would be a milestone in the nation's ongoing retreat from its role as a great power prepared to grapple with the world's biggest flood of refugees since World War II.
The State Department cautions that the pace of refugee admissions may quicken this year. However, bureaucratic gears already set in motion are likely to stanch the flow of the world's most beleaguered people to U.S. shores for the foreseeable future.
A critical factor constricting admissions is Mr. Trump's 90-day                            review  of refugees from 11 mainly Muslim countries, most in the Middle East and Africa, which together have generated more than 40 percent of all those admitted to the United States in each of the past three years, according to an analysis by Reuters. (Those same countries also account for roughly 60 percent of potential future refugees in the pipeline - those awaiting interviews with U.S. officials or various clearances for admission, according to refugee advocates.)
The review, though partially blocked by a federal judge last month, effectively choked off the refugee flow by also imposing burdensome new requirements to what was already an arduous security vetting process - even though refugees have been responsible for few terrorist attacks in the United States and Europe. A knock-on effect was that in response to uncertainty and State Department warnings about dwindling refugee admissions, independent contractors that run several hundred refugee resettlement offices nationwide are downsizing, thereby shrinking absorptive capacity.
At the same time, Homeland Security cut its deployment of interviewers who fan out through strife-ridden regions of the world to interview prospective refugees. In some cases, the admissions slowdown meant that one or another of a welter of required clearances from government agencies has expired for refugees awaiting final permission to enter the United States.
The administration's tactics amount to a stealth war on a program that has embodied America's compassion and global leadership. It is an attack on national identity of a piece with Mr. Trump's hostility to other forms of immigration and a symbol of the country's withdrawal from the world stage.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

311 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The Washington Post

June 15, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 1009 words

 
AFRICA
Ethiopia Agrees to Peace Plan
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia--Ethiopia accepted a peace plan to end a ruinous two-year border war with Eritrea, paving the way for a cease-fire and the deployment of a U.N. force to keep the rival armies apart.
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said a peace proposal by the Organization of African Unity was acceptable and had been approved by his cabinet.
Anthony Lake, President Clinton's envoy to the peace talks, called the agreement "a large step forward, but just that--a step." Lake, who now will help plan a U.N. peacekeeping force, noted that the accord was a "cessation of hostilities" and that a formal cease-fire would come only after a final settlement, including demarcation of the border by the U.N.
The OAU plan calls for a cessation of hostilities and the establishment of a 15-mile buffer zone inside Eritrean territory along the disputed border, to be policed by the U.N.. 
Eritrea, which suffered a string of military losses over the last month, has already accepted the peace plan despite deep reservations.
(Reuters)
U.S. Urges Release of Cuban Doctors
The United States said it has called on the government of Zimbabwe to "meet its obligations" under international law and release two Cuban doctors detained for nearly two weeks. The doctors, part of a Cuban medical aid mission to Zimbabwe, were imprisoned after they tried to defect, asking both Canada and the United States to accept them as political refugees.
Although the United States agreed to grant them temporary refugee status, Zimbabwe has refused to transfer them to the jurisdiction of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, which could then certify them for transfer to a third country. "The ongoing detention does appear to be against international law," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. UNHCR officials said that U.N. officials had visited the doctors yesterday and that negotiations were ongoing with the Zimbabwean government.
(Karen DeYoung)
THE AMERICAS
Mercury Spill Poisons Peruvians
LIMA, Peru--A truck carrying mercury from Latin America's largest gold mine spilled its load near a remote Andean village, poisoning 47 Peruvians who picked up the silver-colored liquid, the mining company said.
Eight Peruvians were seriously ill after the spill near Yanacocha mine, run by the U.S.-based Newmont Mining Corp., the world's second-biggest gold firm, which has come under fire this year from indigenous groups over its environmental record.
"There was a massive gathering up of [mercury] given its very special appearance and beliefs over folkloric medicine," Yanacocha said in a statement published in national newspapers.
In the Andes, some communities use stones and metals as part of rituals involving traditional cures of illnesses.
"There were about 47 cases of poisoning," the mine said, adding that vapor from the mercury poisoned villagers who took the liquid metal into their unventilated homes. Villagers suffered from fevers and skin ulcers, and one victim was in serious condition suffering from pneumonia, it added. The mine produces mercury as well as gold.
(Reuters)
Court Reinstates Sao Paulo Mayor
SAO PAULO, Brazil--The mayor of South America's biggest city faced applause and harsh criticism when he climbed the steps to Sao Paulo's city hall after a court reinstated him despite corruption allegations.
The Supreme Justice Tribunal's order Tuesday reversed an earlier decision to remove Celso Pitta from his post so that lawmakers could investigate accusations that he took bribes and kickbacks.
A triumphant Pitta greeted supporters from the balcony of City Hall after acting mayor Regis de Oliveira stepped down late Tuesday. Oliveira fired Pitta's cabinet in a now-stunted reform effort after taking over May 26.
The mayoral tug-of-war drew sharp criticism from residents, however, who say the courts are making a mockery of Brazilian politics.
"The mayor's palace is turning into a species of motel," wrote Clovis Rossi, a Sao Paulo newspaper columnist. "It would be a slapstick comedy if it weren't such an unparalleled political and administrative tragedy."
(Reuters)
EUROPE
Italian: Pope's Shooter Paid for Crime
ROME--Italian Prime Minister Giuliano Amato gave the clearest explanation yet of why his government pardoned the Turkish terrorist who shot and wounded Pope John Paul II 19 years ago: Mehmet Ali Agca had been in prison long enough. And the pontiff himself wanted his attacker pardoned.
In an interview with the daily La Repubblica, Amato said "the government took the initiative because he had already paid severely for his crime and because the victim--in this case an illustrious victim--wanted him to be pardoned."
Forgiveness ran through much of the commentary published after Agca's sentence was commuted and he was extradited to Turkey to finish the remainder of a 10-year jail term for killing a newspaper editor there in 1979.
"You can't forget that Rome is a double capital," said political and religious commentator Gad Lerner, referring to the powerful role of the Vatican in the political and social life of this country.
Italian President Carlo Ciampi commuted the life sentence handed down to Agca for shooting the pontiff while he blessed crowds from an open car in St. Peter's Square on May 13, 1981. John Paul already had forgiven his would-be assassin publicly and in person.
(Sarah Delaney)
FOR THE RECORD
The main opposition party in Zimbabwe said political violence against its supporters was escalating as elections approached and farm leaders reported assaults on two more white farmers. . . . Armed rebels who seized the Solomon Islands capital of Honiara last week agreed today to give control of law and order back to police but refused to disarm until a comprehensive peace deal is reached.
QUOTE OF THE DAY
"I believe there has to be grand natural unity ... We are at a starting point in history."
-- Kim Dae Jung, president of South Korea --Page A1

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

315 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 26, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Harold Trobe Is Dead at 82; Helped Resettle War Refugees

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

Harold Trobe, a key figure in efforts to rescue and resettle hundreds of thousands of Jewish refugees from war-ravaged Europe, died on Monday at his home in Gainesville, Fla., where he had retired in 1980. He was 82.
The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Mr. Trobe spent 36 years overseas for the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, starting in 1944. His assignments as a country director for the committee took him to places with great concentrations of human suffering.
He was in charge of the agency's commitments to finance the movement of refugees, feed, shelter and clothe them and provide medical attention. He also traveled in the United States to lecture and raise money.
Born in Beaver Falls, Pa., the son of a rabbi, Mr. Trobe graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and earned an master's degree in 1937 from what is now the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work. German immigration to the United States was on the rise at the time, and he found work in Pittsburgh to retrain and find jobs for the new arrivals and care for their children.
He turned to fund-raising and was increasingly engrossed in the plight of European Jews. In 1944 he joined the Joint Distribution Committee, which appointed him its overseas field representative and sent him to Lisbon, its European headquarters.
Portugal was then a way station for refugees from German-occupied Europe, many of them Jews. Largely because of his efforts, two shiploads of refugees were able to sail for Palestine in the face of diplomatic opposition.
The end of World War II in 1945 left an immense mass of displaced people all over Europe. Mr. Trobe was sent to Czechoslovakia, an early focal point for displaced people.
As the situation stabilized there in 1946, he went on to Milan as the committee's director for northern Italy. With long gaps between the arrival and departure of displaced people, Mr. Trobe and his assistants cared for the well-being of many of them.
After a stint in Vienna, he returned to Italy in 1952 as countrywide Joint Distribution Committee director. He remained there for five years, focusing on the flight of Jews from North Africa.
He then served as the director general of the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society for Europe and North Africa for five years, and four more in Rio de Janeiro in the same position for all of Latin America. From 1966 until his retirement, he worked for Joint Distribution Committee in Israel.
In an interview with The Jerusalem Post in 1969 he remembered local authorities' complaints of illegal entry by refugees. "How they get across the border is not my business," he said he told them, "but the minute they come across, they are. If they come across illegally, that's also not my concern.
"I'm not the police. I feed them."
Mr. Trobe is survived by his wife of 58 years, Ruth Weiner Trobe; two sons, Jonathan D. of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Dr. Thomas O. of Zurich; a daughter, Susan T. Goldbard of Millbrae, Calif.; a brother, Jacob L. of Haverford, Pa., and six grandchildren.

NAME: Harold Trobe

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Trobe (Associated Press, 1950)
      

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

318 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

October 16, 2005 Sunday

'Exodus' in black and white: wrenching photos of displaced world citizens on display at Library Square

BYLINE: Dave Gagon Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 863 words

BETWEEN APRIL 6 and July 16 of 1994, a genocide of unprecedented fury and swiftness washed over the African nation of Rwanda. When it was over, more than 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus had been butchered, another 2 million had fled the country, and another million were displaced.
The world witnessed these 100 days of depravity through newspaper and magazine reports and TV news: it was horrific and often unbearable to view, and we wondered at the time, what will happen to the exiles?
Today, the question remains, but is more encompassing; what becomes of all the displaced refugees throughout the world, devastated by not only war, but by famine, natural disasters and the widening gap between the rich and poor? 
One of the more poignant answers to this query is "Exodus," a visually stunning, emotionally charged exhibit by international photographer Sebastiao Salgado, on display through Dec. 17 at The Leonardo at Library Square.
Presented by the Center for Documentary Arts, Salgado's inspiring black-and-white photographs chronicle the global movement of populations at the turn of the millennium.
Beginning in 1993, and continuing for the next six years, he worked among migrants, refugees and exiles across 40 countries in Africa, the Americas, Europe and Asia. He documented their places of origin, the circumstances of their flight and their uncertain destinations and destinies.
"Exodus," according to the exhibition essay, "is a reflection on the global phenomena that has broken down borders, created slums and refugee camps, and produced conflicts over employment and civil rights around the globe."
Born in 1944 in Aimores, Minas Gerais, Brazil, Salgado studied economics in his country and the United States. In 1971, he earned a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Paris. However, in 1973 -- after borrowing his wife's camera -- he traveled to Africa. The result of this photographic journey was Salgado changed careers: He became a photojournalist and today is known for his peerless images of man and his relationship to himself and the land.
Assembled and curated by his wife, Lelia Wanick Salgado, "Exodus" features 300 black-and-white photographs divided into five sections:
-- Migrants and Refugees: The Survival Instinct
-- The African Tragedy: A Continent Adrift
-- Latin America: Rural Exodus, Urban Disorder
-- Asia: The World's New Urban Face
-- The Children: 40 portraits of migrant, refugee and displaced children under the age of 15 from around the world.
In addition to detailing the aftermath of the Rwanda apocalypse, Salgado's exhibit tackles the displaced hordes in Angola who camp out near railroad tracks, in movie theaters, schools or museums, as well as the thousands of Mozambique exiles living in Tanzania.
"Exodus" also grapples with the Brazilian dilemma of five million rural workers unable to acquire land to work, and poverty-stricken Mexicans displaced by Zapatistas.
In the "Migrants and Refugees" section, Salgado starkly depicts the demise of Kabul, Afghanistan, since the Soviets abandoned the country in the late 1980s. Each armed faction that has conquered the city has provoked an exodus, and the images graphically portray just how little is left.
The same section includes a series of photographs of the Vietnamese boat people. Some 800,000 fled the country and Communist rule, only to wind up in permanent detention centers in some other Asian country.
During the "Exodus" project in 1994 in Mozambique, Africa, children would surround Salgado as he worked, hoping to have their picture taken one more time. According to photographer Kent Miles, exhibit project director, Salgado would "promise the children if they would line up and wait, he would take their photograph later."
Eventually Salgado discovered he had so many good portraits of children they deserved their own section in the show.
As the last segment in the exhibit, "The Children" is a compelling selection of 40 portraits, each with the ability to effect emotion. According to the photographer, the children look "beautiful, happy, proud, pensive or sad."
The artistry throughout the exhibit is superb, and even though Salgado is claimed to have been more interested in the message, each photograph is an extraordinary example of lighting and composition.
Salgado created "Exodus" in the hopes that "as individuals, as groups, as societies, we can pause and reflect on the human condition at the turn of the millennium. In its rawest form individualism remains a prescription for catastrophe. We have to create a new regimen of co-existence."
"Exodus" succeeds on every level, and the Center for Documentary Arts deserves praise for spearheading the two-year effort to bring this major exhibition to Salt Lake City. If you go . . .
What: "Exodus -- Photographs by Sebastio Salgado"
Where: The Leonardo at Library Square, 209 E. 500 South
When: Through Dec. 17
Dates/Times: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.; Wednesday, Friday, 10 a.m.-9 p.m.; Sunday, 1-5 p.m.
How much: $10 for adults; $7 for seniors, military, students, youths (12-17)
Phone: 531-9800
Web: www.theleonardo.org
Also: Not recommended for children under 12 due to mature content E-mail: gag@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

321 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

June 19, 2007 Tuesday  
Late Edition - Final

The Stories of Refugees, Wrapped in Stereotypes

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'RAIN IN A DRY LAND'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words

In its more unfortunate passages, ''Rain in a Dry Land,'' Anne Makepeace's film about two Somali refugee families being relocated to the United States, reinforces unpleasant stereotypes that some people still harbor about Africa: that everybody over there is so illiterate and backward that airplanes and staircases and telephones baffle them.  
  Watch closely, though, and you may end up thinking that the truly naive and unsophisticated people in the story are the ones who thought that they were doing African farmers a favor by depositing them in urban America without a strong, open-ended support system. 
  The film, tonight on PBS's ''P.O.V.'' series, begins with a brief synopsis of the endless war that sent many Bantu families fleeing from Somalia to refugee camps in Kenya. The United States, the film says, is now taking in 13,000 of the refugees. Ms. Makepeace follows a husband and wife, Aden and Madina, and their seven children, who go to Springfield, Mass., and a single mother named Arbai and her four children, who go to Atlanta. 
  The film too often settles for condescending scenes that seem intent on reinforcing Western superiority at the expense of the immigrants: Aden can't open a childproof cap; Madina doesn't trust Banquet Crispy Chicken. (''How do you know it's chicken?'' she says. ''Why is it so cold?'') 
  It's a common viewpoint in collision-of-cultures films, and an irritating one: sure, American money baffles newcomers, but do we ever get a comparative lesson in the financial system they left behind? No; easier, and more comforting, to just let us assume that they're dimwits. 
  But Ms. Makepeace's film is fascinating when it takes an unblinking look at more difficult issues: Madina's apparent depression; Aden's growing frustration at not being able to master English or find a job; some of the children's troubles in school, where they are plunked without translators. 
  The film ends ambiguously, and an update on pbs.org that fills in the story since filming was completed is equally inconclusive. The uncomfortable feeling remains that this type of resettlement is simultaneously an act of generosity and a sort of benevolent torment. 
  P.O.V.
  Rain in a Dry Land
  On most PBS stations tonight (check local listings).
  Produced, directed and written by Anne Makepeace. Mary Lampson, editor; Joan Churchill, Barney Broomfield, cinematography; music by Joel Goodman. Produced by Anne Makepeace Productions Inc. and the Independent Television Service (ITVS), in association with American Documentary  P.O.V. and Center for Independent Documentary. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Madina Ali Yunye is a transplanted Somali in ''Rain in a Dry Land.'' (Photograph by Matt Schwab/PBS)                   

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company

326 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 24, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SAN FRANCISCO APPROVES BILL TO DESIGNATE IT A SANCTUARY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 23

The Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 today to adopt a resolution declaring the city a sanctuary for refugees from the Central American countries.
The board also approved, 11 to 0, an ordinance that would prevent the city from investing in or entering into contracts with businesses with links to South Africa.
Both measures must be approved upon a second reading in two weeks, after which Mayor Dianne Feinstein will decide whether to sign them. 
The sanctuary resolution tells city employees, including police officers, that they need not report law-abiding Salvadorans or Guatemalans or cooperate with the immigration authorities in arresting such people. An estimated 80,000 people from Guatemala and El Salvador live in San Francisco.
Similar resolutions have been passed recently in Los Angeles, West Hollywood, Berkeley, Chicago, St. Paul, and Cambridge, Mass., despite opposition from the Reagan Administration.
''We are not asking anyone to do anything illegal,'' said Supervisor Nancy Walker. ''We have got to extend our hand to these people. If these people go home, they die. They are asking us to let them stay.''
Willie Kennedy, a co-sponsor of both ordinances, denied that the Supervisors were ''meddling in foreign affairs.''
''I think we're dealing with human rights issues, not foreign affairs,'' she said.
The sanctuary resolution says the police, like other officials, are not required to help the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service find law-abiding refugees.
Under Federal law, citizens are not required to report illegal aliens, except for peace officers who observe the aliens entering the country, she said.
The ordinance is aimed at protecting refugees already in the United States from being returned to their homelands, Supervisor Kennedy said.
Harold Ezell, the director of the western regional office of the immigration service, last week called the proposal ''irresponsible activity'' and said elected officials who support such actions are going ''against their oath to uphold the law.'' He said that granting sanctuary to the refugees eventually would cost taxpayers thousands of dollars in welfare benefits. He also has said that people from such Central American countries enter the United States for economic reasons, rather than to escape persecution.
The ordinance on South Africa investments, meant to protest that country's policy of racial segregation, would exempt contracts worth less than $5,000 and existing contracts with companies that have dealings in South Africa.
The companies that already have contracts with the city would be required to divest themselves of their South Africa investments before their contracts could be renewed.
Other exceptions would be contracts for goods produced only in South Africa or in cases where the city treasurer had determined San Francisco would suffer financially by avoiding a business with South Africa connections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

327 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Refugees rich -- in gratitude

BYLINE: Doug Robinson Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 685 words

   "Oh, Amy, America, America; it's hard, but, oh, it is worth it for the peace of mind. My children can run and play." -- Saran, Salt Lake refugee
SOUTH SALT LAKE -- Down at the South Park Apartments, which is located by the railroad tracks, somewhere between nowhere and somewhere, the people don't have much, except their lives, and that is enough for now.
They are mostly refugees, people who have fled Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East to escape civil war and "ethnic cleansing." They all have a story that could fill a Hollywood blockbuster. 
Amy Wylie knows their stories. She knows all of the residents as if they were uncles and cousins. Called by her church to be a service missionary, this kindly, middle-aged mother of three is a mentor and friend to these refugees. She is here almost daily to help refugees navigate America and its morass of work permits, laws, welfare, doctor visits, school, jobs.
This morning, she stops first at the apartment of Zeinab, a tiny woman who speaks no English. Her husband was born in Afghanistan, she in Lebanon and her children in Syria. They were on the run until coming here seven years ago. When she sees Amy, she rushes out the door to greet her. "They're always glad to see me," says Amy. Zeinab searches her purse and pulls out her Utah I.D., which she shows to Amy, beaming.
"Oh, you got your I.D.!" and they exchange a hug for this simple victory.
Amy walks to another apartment where she finds Esther, a Liberian refugee who fled to a camp in Guinea. Amy calls each of the children by name, all nine of them. They rush to greet her at the door, wrapping tiny arms around her leg.
"We love them and so they love us," says Amy.
The carpet is dirty, the ceiling is cracked, the door handle is missing, the stove and toilet don't always work, but Esther says, "I'm glad to be here."
They lived in a refugee camp for 14 years waiting for asylum.
As she walks toward another apartment, Amy is talking about how badly more mentors are needed. She is not wealthy. She does not write checks for these people. She gives them time and energy. "I can't imagine life without it," she says. "We waste so much time. This gives it meaning. We're needed."
The level of commitment is up to the mentor. For her part, Amy invites the families to her home occasionally. In summer, they lounge on the lawn chairs in her yard as if it were a great luxury.
"It's like going to a nice resort for them," she says, her eyes welling with tears.
She stops by another apartment belonging to Saran and Joseph.
She was an accountant in Sierra Leone, he an economist. When civil war broke out, they were kidnapped by rebels and separated for almost a year. She bore their first child in a rebel camp. They were reunited and had another child. Then Joseph went to get work one day and didn't come home for three years. Saran gave birth to their third child in a camp in Ghana. When Saran and the children were granted asylum, they moved to America without Joseph. For more than a year she waited for him, never giving up hope he was alive, and finally he surfaced in Africa.
Amy sent out a mass e-mail soliciting help. An anonymous donor paid Joseph's passage to America. Amy watched the reunion at Salt Lake City International, where Joseph met his third child for the first time, taking her face in his hands and staring into her eyes.
Joseph and Saran are articulate, educated and hard-working.
Amy likes their chances of succeeding in the United States. They tend neighbor kids during the day; she attends night school to study accounting.
They plan to open a day-care center, but they need donations. They are grateful people. When a modest couch was presented to them, Saran protested, "It's too good for us."
Gratefulness is the currency of these people, Amy's payback.
One young man called her one day simply to say, "Thank you for loving me."
"People ask if these people want a lot," says Amy. "They just want love." And out of love comes her service. "Every single day I'm here, my life is better," she says. Doug Robinson's column runs on Tuesday. Please send e-mail to drob@desnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

328 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 13, 1988, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.N. Refugee Aid Chief Faulted on Management;
Report Alleges 'Climate of Helplessness'

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 938 words

A veteran relief expert who heads the U.N. High Commission for Refugees has been sharply criticized by an internal U.N. panel, which charges that he is responsible for poor management practices at a time when the commission faces severe challenges in providing aid to more than 12 million refugees around the world.
The report criticizing Jean-Pierre Hocke, the high commissioner, surfaces as Hocke's three-year term draws to a close -- he is seeking reappointment in November. Challengers include Norwegian Foreign Minister Thorwald Stoltenberg and Finnish diplomat Martti Ahtassari, currently a U.N. undersecretary and special representative to Namibia.
The restricted report, by the U.N. Panel on Discrimination and Other Grievances, which is independent of the refugee agency, alleges "a general climate of helplessness" at the commission that has led to the resignations of "highly qualified senior staff . . . . " The Geneva-based panel, which submitted its report in March, found that the "current management style at [the commission] demonstrates the personalization and centralization of authority" around Hocke. 
The Washington Post obtained the report, as well as a June 30 statement by Robert van Leeuwen, chairman of the commission staff council, to representatives of the 43 nations on the commission executive. The statement asserts that despite the commission's "abiding commitment" to aid refugees, the working "climate is marked by a lack of confidence [and] disaffection . . . . The frustration of this commitment, due to continuing management problems . . . seriously hampers our ability to serve refugees . . . . "
There are many millions more refugees in the world than the 12 million under the umbrella of the commission, which, for historical reasons, is not responsible for the Palestinians.  Among the refugees are about 5 million Afghans in Iran and Pakistan; more than 1 million across the Horn of Africa; a million in southern Africa, and several hundred thousand in Southeast Asia and Central America.
The commission will spend about $ 500 million in aid funds this year. It has a staff of 2,300 officers, 800 at headquarters in Geneva, and the rest in the field as specialists, medical and supply personnel. The United States, Japan, and West Germany, in that order, are the agency's biggest contributors.
Hocke, a Swiss, was named high commissioner in 1985 with U.S. support. The State Department divisions concerned with the work of the commission, the Bureau of International Organization Affairs and the Bureau for Refugee Programs, have both reaffirmed full support for Hocke's reappointment. An official at the Refugee Programs offices said: "We support him entirely. He has done a great deal for the Horn, and in planning the repatriation of Afghans and in responding to emergencies."
The grievance panel began its inquiry after two High Commission staffers, Yilma Makonnen of Ethiopia and Nicolas Bwakira of Burundi, complained that they had been denied new positions. The panel found that the two men were much better qualified for the posts than the men eventually appointed by Hocke.
But the panel added, "It is becoming common practice to disregard the qualifications, competence and seniority of staff . . . , " and called it "a deplorable waste . . . . "
Other staff members said they had warned Hocke of what they called a "frightening pattern" of resignations.
The panel also criticized what it said was Hocke's policy of hiring outside consultants "reportedly at exorbitant cost, to do tasks . . . which could have been accomplished more efficiently by [commission] staff."
Hocke, a veteran of the International Red Cross, arrived at the commission at a time when some important member states were cool to the principle of asylum and the number of refugees was growing. He was lauded by some sources for a combative, effective management style.
But Roger Winter, director of the U.S. Committee on Refugees, a major U.S. refugee organization, blamed Hocke for what he called a High Commission "retreat . . . from its only statutory duty, that of protecting refugees in the fullest legal and moral sense."
Hocke drew some criticism from within the State Department after he opened a bureau in Kabul and went to Moscow for talks on the Afghan refugee problem; the International Organizations office faulted this as "legitimizing the illegal Afghan regime."
The Organization of African Unity last May complained that the commission had made no allocation for South African refugees under the care of the African National Congress (ANC). Brig. Gen. Hashim Mbita, executive secretary of the OAU's Liberation Committee, berated Hocke for what he called "a steady and substantial reduction" of assistance to refugees in the front-line states, particularly Namibia.
Earlier this year, Hocke attracted attention after he ordered the burning of all 130,000 copies of an edition of the commission's monthly magazine Refugee before distribution. The magazine contained a 14-page article critical of West Germany for what the authors said was a declining commitment to refugee asylum. Hocke was accused by some refugee experts of repressing it to appease the West Germans, who contribute 10 percent of commission funds. Hocke has said that the article was out of date and needed revision.
Hocke declined to discuss with a reporter any of the matters in this article. A spokeswoman said he regarded the grievance panel report as "part of an appeal procedure in which the high commissioner has participated and provided documentation. The procedure is still going on."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1988 The Washington Post

330 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

December 16, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

YOUNG REFUGEES GET TASTE OF AMERICAN TRADITIONS AT SPECIAL DINNER

BYLINE: Robin Seaton Jefferson; Special To The St. Charles County Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 723 words

 
A special group of kids broke bread with young people at the St. Charles County Boys and Girls Club in a unique celebration of Thanksgiving.
Teen-age refugees from Kosovo, Bosnia and Africa observed their first Thanksgiving in the United States with American teen-agers at the club in Blanchette Park in St. Charles on Nov. 22. About 30 members of the Boys and Girls Club brought in Thanksgiving dishes, including mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese to share with teen-age refugees. The refugees are taking part in a program to help integrate them into the culture and customs of America. 
In July, the American Red Cross St. Louis Bistate Chapter developed the International Youth Adventures program in cooperation with the International Institute and Catholic Charities. The six-week program was designed to help young refugees adjust to St. Louis.
Each year, Torch and Keystone group members from the Boys and Girls Club, who are also members of the American Red Cross Youth Corps, meet for a traditional Thanksgiving dinner. This year, they decided to host a dinner for the teen-age refugees. Torch and Keystone are youth leadership groups for Boys and Girls Club members between the ages of 11 and 18. The Youth Corps is made up of teens and young adults ages 12 to 24 who volunteer with the American Red Cross in the St. Louis area.
The idea for the international Thanksgiving was born out of a conversation between Barbara Palmer, Boys and Girls Club aquatics director, and Nick Farruggia, coordinator of the American Red Cross St. Charles County Service Center.
Farruggia said Palmer was looking for new activities for the youth at the Boys and Girls Club, and he was looking for new ways to integrate the teen-agers from Kosovo into this country.
"We felt it was important to reach out to these teen-agers from Kosovo by introducing ourselves and our traditions," Palmer said. "I think these kids do a lot in taking care of their families. They're the ones learning English and taking Mom to the bank or grocery store. They don't have so much time to be kids. That's a real important thing."
Palmer said letting kids be kids is one of the Boys and Girls Club's top priorities. "In any society, kids are pushed too hard to become grown up," she said. "I can offer these kids (from other countries) the same things I teach here, the same things that any kid needs. They need a time to forget about the seriousness of our society. We try really hard to give kids a place to relax and have a good time and forget about issues."
Vicki Cinotto, American Red Cross Service Center specialist, has spent many hours with the refugees since they came to America via the International Institute in St. Louis earlier this year. A government-financed resettlement agency for refugees, the International Institute helps integrate refugees into American culture by finding jobs, housing and schooling for them.
"I'm hoping the groups get together and learn about the different cultures and maybe see the world in a different light," Cinotto said.
She admits that American teens cannot begin to understand the circumstances their international peers have come from. "I couldn't even imagine what they've gone through or even how they were put in a different country not speaking the language. I couldn't relate to any of that. But they just want to be kids, just want to fit in and be a part of the group and I can help with that."
An African girl who joined in the festivities at the club said she felt safe and happy in America. The 12-year-old came to St. Louis from Monrovia with her family about six months ago due to fighting in her country. Her grandparents are still there.
She said she tries not to think about Africa and what she left behind. Although she misses family and friends still living there, she has a new life now. She wants to be a teacher here like her father was in Monrovia. Math is "very hard" she said, "harder than in Africa" and computers are new to her. She is learning English and struggling a little with the sciences, but mainly she has learned something about life, a positive that she will carry with her regardless of her address.
"In America, people can really do something for you," she said. "I've learned that some people in the world are very good and some are not."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by ROBIN SEATON JEFFERSON - Refugees from Kosovo, Bosnia and Africa share a Thanksgiving dinner with other children from the Boys and Girls Club in Blanchette Park.

Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

331 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 19, 2016 Monday

Renewing the United States' Global Commitment to Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 1656  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Center for American Progress has issued the following news release:

  

 The world is currently in the midst of the greatest refugee challenge in modern history. According to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, or UNHCR, more than 65 million people were displaced across the globe as of the end of 2015--up from 59.5 million people a year earlier. Of those, more than 21 million are refugees, outside their home countries and in need of protection. 


 

 The most public face of the crisis has been the civil war in Syria, which, according to the UNHCR, has created nearly 5 million registered refugees so far. Beyond Syria, many other conflicts still smolder, pushing millions of people out of countries ranging from Somalia, Nigeria, and the Central African Republic to South Sudan, Afghanistan, and Myanmar, as well as the Northern Triangle countries of Central America--Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala--in the United States' own backyard.

 

 With this backdrop, the United Nations is hosting a Summit for Refugees and Migrants today in New York, followed tomorrow by an Obama administration-led Leaders' Summit on Refugees. Both events seek to galvanize the world community to do more to protect refugees, with the administration's event specifically geared toward securing commitments from nations to increase funding for and resettlement of refugees.

 

 These two summits represent the international community's increasing recognition that more needs to be done to help this unprecedented wave of displaced people. It also illustrates the Obama administration's leadership in pushing the world to increase support and funding for refugee resettlement. As the United States enters these two summits, it is time for the nation to redouble its own commitment to resettling refugees--from those fleeing violence in nearby nations to those thousands of miles away overseas.

 Raising the overall number of refugees the U.S. admits

 

 After a slow start in fiscal year 2016--in which, by the end of May, the United States had only resettled one-quarter of its stated commitment of 10,000 Syrian refugees--the administration announced on August 29 that it had hit its target. According to the administration's report to Congress laying out its 2017 resettlement goals--the "Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017"--the administration now believes it will surpass its original goal, bringing in up to 13,000 Syrians by the end of September.

 

 Most importantly, the report to Congress makes clear that the United States will surpass even the commitment made by Secretary of State John Kerry in September 2015 to bring in 100,000 refugees in FY 2017: It raises the target for resettlement in FY 2017 to 110,000 refugees. This change--representing a roughly 29 percent increase from the FY 2016 admissions--is a welcome one and illustrates a commitment from the administration to continuously reassess and expand resettlement to match the needs of the evolving global crisis of displaced people. Nonetheless, even these numbers represent only a drop in the bucket. The UNHCR, for example, estimates that at least 10 percent of all Syrian refugees will need to be resettled, not to mention the millions of other refugees worldwide.

 

 Given the scale of the Syrian crisis, expanding the number of refugees taken into the United States is critical. But while the report to Congress calls for only a slight increase in regional arrivals from the Near East and South Asia--the region that encompasses Syrian admissions--and says that it will aim to admit a "significantly higher number" of Syrians in FY 2017 than in 2016, it does not set out a target for Syrian admissions to the United States. Human Rights First, for example, has called for the administration to admit 100,000 Syrians next year in addition to 100,000 refugees from the rest of the world.

 

 Whatever number of Syrians the administration ultimately decides to admit, it should view the commitment to resettling 110,000 total refugees in FY 2017 as a floor, rather than a ceiling, and should do everything in its power to increase the number of refugees admitted.

 Protecting asylum seekers in the Northern Hemisphere

 

 While the full agenda and details of the administration's leaders' summit have not yet been made public, the material that has been released focuses primarily on the needs of resettling refugees from overseas, with no mention of asylum seekers the United States' own backyard. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power, for example, in her speech in late June introducing the Leaders' Summit, focused primarily on Syria and parts of Africa--without mentioning the extreme violence and structural poverty pushing children and families out of the Northern Triangle of Central America.

 

 As Ambassador Power stated, "People do not become refugees by choice ... they flee because their lives are at risk." This is a situation that women and children in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala know intimately. These countries are three of the most violent in the world, with particularly high rates of femicide--the killing of women and girls. Since FY 2014, nearly 157,000 children and 167,000 families have fled to the United States. Over the past few months, the number of people from the region seeking asylum in the United States has risen steadily.

 

 In response to the rising number of asylum seekers, the administration announced in late July that it would work with the UNHCR to expand in-country and regional refugee processing in Central America to bolster its capacity to identify and protect people who are in danger in the Northern Triangle. In announcing the program, Deputy Homeland Security Adviser Amy Pope made it clear that "Our current efforts to date have been insufficient to address the number of people who may have legitimate refugee claims."

 

 While the July announcement was a welcome shift toward recognizing the situation in the Northern Triangle as a true refugee crisis, as Pope's quote underscores, the United States has not done enough in the region. Even with the new regional processing program, the report to Congress only calls for an increase in the number of resettlement slots for refugees from all of Latin America and the Caribbean from 3,000 to 5,000. This represents only a fraction of the number of people fleeing the region.

 

 As the Center for American Progress has previously argued, the situation in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala can be managed in an orderly fashion, but doing so will require time and a concerted effort to tackle the root causes of violence and structural poverty in the region. In the meantime, the United States can and should do more to ensure that all asylum seekers that reach its borders are afforded full and fair due process to make their claim for protection. The nation should also build upon its regional resettlement efforts and explore ways to partner with the UNHCR and other nations in the Western Hemisphere to resettle a greater number of people from the Northern Triangle.

 Funding is critical, and the ball is in Congress' court

 

 While the Obama administration has stepped up to raise the numbers of refugees to be resettled, Congress has not, to date, provided a corresponding increase in the funds available to ensure that these individuals are able to resettle smoothly, find livelihoods, and become self-sufficient soon after arrival--a key goal of the U.S. refugee program.

 

 The funding Congress appropriated for FY 2016 was based on an estimate of only 75,000 refugees being resettled. When the administration raised its target to 85,000 refugees, Congress did not increase the funding to match. This means that over the past year, the government has had to resettle more refugees with fewer funds. To make matters worse, Congress will most likely only fund the government for the remainder of the calendar year using a continuing resolution--a stopgap, short-term funding bill rather than a full-year appropriation--likely holding the amount of funding for resettlement to FY 2016 levels. This will become all the more difficult to sustain as the number of refugees admitted grows to 110,000.

 

 Take the Office of Refugee Resettlement, or ORR, as an example. This agency helps integrate newly arrived refugees into American life and society, providing financial and medical assistance, social work and case management, and language and job training programs. It also has primary responsibility for the housing and care of unaccompanied children who arrive in the United States. In FY 2016, the ORR received a little less than $1.7 billion to accomplish these tasks. With an increase in the numbers of both refugees being resettled and unaccompanied children arriving, however, ORR's budget is stretched thin.

 

 The administration's FY 2017 budget, based on the original goal of resettling 100,000 refugees, calls for the ORR to receive about $2.2 billion, while Refugee Council USA--the main umbrella group for organizations working to resettle and protect refugees--has called for the ORR to receive $2.95 billion. Either way, Congress must come together to provide more funding to the agency.

 Conclusion

 

 This week's U.N. and administration summits should galvanize the international community to do more to protect and resettle refugees around the world. By shining a spotlight on the issue, the administration is continuing America's long-standing position as a beacon of safety for--in the words of poet Emma Lazarus--the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free." By expanding the U.S. commitment to Syrian refugees, increasing protecting for asylum seekers from the Northern Triangle, and fully funding the refugee program, Congress and the administration can continue to provide a much-needed leadership example for the rest of the world to follow.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

332 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 19, 2016 Monday

Renewing the United States' Global Commitment to Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 1656  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Center for American Progress has issued the following news release:

  

 The world is currently in the midst of the greatest refugee challenge in modern history. According to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, or UNHCR, more than 65 million people were displaced across the globe as of the end of 2015--up from 59.5 million people a year earlier. Of those, more than 21 million are refugees, outside their home countries and in need of protection. 


 

 The most public face of the crisis has been the civil war in Syria, which, according to the UNHCR, has created nearly 5 million registered refugees so far. Beyond Syria, many other conflicts still smolder, pushing millions of people out of countries ranging from Somalia, Nigeria, and the Central African Republic to South Sudan, Afghanistan, and Myanmar, as well as the Northern Triangle countries of Central America--Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala--in the United States' own backyard.

 

 With this backdrop, the United Nations is hosting a Summit for Refugees and Migrants today in New York, followed tomorrow by an Obama administration-led Leaders' Summit on Refugees. Both events seek to galvanize the world community to do more to protect refugees, with the administration's event specifically geared toward securing commitments from nations to increase funding for and resettlement of refugees.

 

 These two summits represent the international community's increasing recognition that more needs to be done to help this unprecedented wave of displaced people. It also illustrates the Obama administration's leadership in pushing the world to increase support and funding for refugee resettlement. As the United States enters these two summits, it is time for the nation to redouble its own commitment to resettling refugees--from those fleeing violence in nearby nations to those thousands of miles away overseas.

 Raising the overall number of refugees the U.S. admits

 

 After a slow start in fiscal year 2016--in which, by the end of May, the United States had only resettled one-quarter of its stated commitment of 10,000 Syrian refugees--the administration announced on August 29 that it had hit its target. According to the administration's report to Congress laying out its 2017 resettlement goals--the "Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017"--the administration now believes it will surpass its original goal, bringing in up to 13,000 Syrians by the end of September.

 

 Most importantly, the report to Congress makes clear that the United States will surpass even the commitment made by Secretary of State John Kerry in September 2015 to bring in 100,000 refugees in FY 2017: It raises the target for resettlement in FY 2017 to 110,000 refugees. This change--representing a roughly 29 percent increase from the FY 2016 admissions--is a welcome one and illustrates a commitment from the administration to continuously reassess and expand resettlement to match the needs of the evolving global crisis of displaced people. Nonetheless, even these numbers represent only a drop in the bucket. The UNHCR, for example, estimates that at least 10 percent of all Syrian refugees will need to be resettled, not to mention the millions of other refugees worldwide.

 

 Given the scale of the Syrian crisis, expanding the number of refugees taken into the United States is critical. But while the report to Congress calls for only a slight increase in regional arrivals from the Near East and South Asia--the region that encompasses Syrian admissions--and says that it will aim to admit a "significantly higher number" of Syrians in FY 2017 than in 2016, it does not set out a target for Syrian admissions to the United States. Human Rights First, for example, has called for the administration to admit 100,000 Syrians next year in addition to 100,000 refugees from the rest of the world.

 

 Whatever number of Syrians the administration ultimately decides to admit, it should view the commitment to resettling 110,000 total refugees in FY 2017 as a floor, rather than a ceiling, and should do everything in its power to increase the number of refugees admitted.

 Protecting asylum seekers in the Northern Hemisphere

 

 While the full agenda and details of the administration's leaders' summit have not yet been made public, the material that has been released focuses primarily on the needs of resettling refugees from overseas, with no mention of asylum seekers the United States' own backyard. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power, for example, in her speech in late June introducing the Leaders' Summit, focused primarily on Syria and parts of Africa--without mentioning the extreme violence and structural poverty pushing children and families out of the Northern Triangle of Central America.

 

 As Ambassador Power stated, "People do not become refugees by choice ... they flee because their lives are at risk." This is a situation that women and children in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala know intimately. These countries are three of the most violent in the world, with particularly high rates of femicide--the killing of women and girls. Since FY 2014, nearly 157,000 children and 167,000 families have fled to the United States. Over the past few months, the number of people from the region seeking asylum in the United States has risen steadily.

 

 In response to the rising number of asylum seekers, the administration announced in late July that it would work with the UNHCR to expand in-country and regional refugee processing in Central America to bolster its capacity to identify and protect people who are in danger in the Northern Triangle. In announcing the program, Deputy Homeland Security Adviser Amy Pope made it clear that "Our current efforts to date have been insufficient to address the number of people who may have legitimate refugee claims."

 

 While the July announcement was a welcome shift toward recognizing the situation in the Northern Triangle as a true refugee crisis, as Pope's quote underscores, the United States has not done enough in the region. Even with the new regional processing program, the report to Congress only calls for an increase in the number of resettlement slots for refugees from all of Latin America and the Caribbean from 3,000 to 5,000. This represents only a fraction of the number of people fleeing the region.

 

 As the Center for American Progress has previously argued, the situation in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala can be managed in an orderly fashion, but doing so will require time and a concerted effort to tackle the root causes of violence and structural poverty in the region. In the meantime, the United States can and should do more to ensure that all asylum seekers that reach its borders are afforded full and fair due process to make their claim for protection. The nation should also build upon its regional resettlement efforts and explore ways to partner with the UNHCR and other nations in the Western Hemisphere to resettle a greater number of people from the Northern Triangle.

 Funding is critical, and the ball is in Congress' court

 

 While the Obama administration has stepped up to raise the numbers of refugees to be resettled, Congress has not, to date, provided a corresponding increase in the funds available to ensure that these individuals are able to resettle smoothly, find livelihoods, and become self-sufficient soon after arrival--a key goal of the U.S. refugee program.

 

 The funding Congress appropriated for FY 2016 was based on an estimate of only 75,000 refugees being resettled. When the administration raised its target to 85,000 refugees, Congress did not increase the funding to match. This means that over the past year, the government has had to resettle more refugees with fewer funds. To make matters worse, Congress will most likely only fund the government for the remainder of the calendar year using a continuing resolution--a stopgap, short-term funding bill rather than a full-year appropriation--likely holding the amount of funding for resettlement to FY 2016 levels. This will become all the more difficult to sustain as the number of refugees admitted grows to 110,000.

 

 Take the Office of Refugee Resettlement, or ORR, as an example. This agency helps integrate newly arrived refugees into American life and society, providing financial and medical assistance, social work and case management, and language and job training programs. It also has primary responsibility for the housing and care of unaccompanied children who arrive in the United States. In FY 2016, the ORR received a little less than $1.7 billion to accomplish these tasks. With an increase in the numbers of both refugees being resettled and unaccompanied children arriving, however, ORR's budget is stretched thin.

 

 The administration's FY 2017 budget, based on the original goal of resettling 100,000 refugees, calls for the ORR to receive about $2.2 billion, while Refugee Council USA--the main umbrella group for organizations working to resettle and protect refugees--has called for the ORR to receive $2.95 billion. Either way, Congress must come together to provide more funding to the agency.

 Conclusion

 

 This week's U.N. and administration summits should galvanize the international community to do more to protect and resettle refugees around the world. By shining a spotlight on the issue, the administration is continuing America's long-standing position as a beacon of safety for--in the words of poet Emma Lazarus--the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free." By expanding the U.S. commitment to Syrian refugees, increasing protecting for asylum seekers from the Northern Triangle, and fully funding the refugee program, Congress and the administration can continue to provide a much-needed leadership example for the rest of the world to follow.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

334 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 21, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Gives Somali Mother Refugee Status

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,   Special to The New York Times 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 20

In a landmark immigration ruling, Canada has granted refugee status to a Somali woman who fled her country with her 10-year-old daughter because she feared that the daughter would face ritual genital mutilation.
In one of the rare times that any Western nation has specifically cited the threat of this ancient custom, widely practiced in Africa, as a reason for granting asylum, a panel of Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board said the daughter's "right to personal security would be grossly infringed" if she were forced to return. 
The mother, Khadra Hassan Farah, 30, who lives in Ottawa and intends to study nursing this fall at the local Algonquin College, said in a telephone interview: "I couldn't believe my ears. I was so happy."
A two-member panel of the board ruled on the case on May 10, but the written decision was published only last week.
"The panel is satisfied that the authorities in Somalia will not protect the claimant from the physical and emotional ravages of female genital mutilation, given the evidence of its widespread practice in that country," the panel said.
 
Recalling the Horror
 Ms. Farah, who underwent the ritual 20 years ago, said she could still recall the horror. "I can still see the scene and feel the pain and trauma all over again," she declared.
Her daughter, Hodan Farah, "does not really understand the situation," the mother said. Had her appeal been rejected, she said she would have tried to put Hodan up for adoption in Canada.
Female genital mutilation, often referred to as female circumcision, has long been condemned by human rights advocates and health professionals in the West. It entails cutting away some part of a girl's genitalia before the onset of puberty. Some scholars say its purpose is to thwart sexual appetite, maintain a girl's virginity and enhance her appeal as a marital partner.
The World Health Organization has estimated that as many as 114 million women worldwide have endured the procedure.
In many Western countries it is against the law. Britain, Sweden and Switzerland in recent years have passed specific legislation banning it. In the United States such legislation has been introduced in Congress.
Canada, along with France, maintains that any bodily mutilation is already a violation of its existing criminal laws, making new legislation unnecessary.
 
Criminal Case in France
 In a case involving a woman from Mali, who was accused of mutilating her three-month-old daughter, France last year became the first country to bring criminal charges against someone who performs the procedure.
Nurjehan Mawani, a Kenyan-born lawyer who is chairwoman of the immigration board, said she did not expect a flood of claims to result from the Canadian decision.
"Refugee determination is always on a case-by-case basis," she pointed out. "I expect we may see a few more cases, but certainly no floodgates. If you look at the overall worldwide situation, only 5 percent of world refugees are able to claim refugee status in the West, and of these the proportion of women is abysmally small. Women do not have the same mobility as men."
David Matas, president of the Canadian Council of Refugees, said the decision "will help to redress the gender bias and capture the female experience of persecution." He added, "Until now the process has tended to use a largely male-dominated definition, of somebody politically active, involved in demonstrations and the like."
In 1991 France became the first country to establish that female genital mutilation is a form of persecution and that the threat of it is sufficient grounds to grant a woman refugee status.
 
Canadian Case a First
 But no one has yet been granted such status in France for this reason. The latest ruling is believed to make Canada the first country to grant such status as part of its conventional refugee procedures.
In March of last year, Canada adopted guidelines that make it easier for women to claim refugee status, which paved the way for the latest ruling. Yet the guidelines have not resulted in any increase in claims. In fact, new refugee claims fell last year to 22,000 from 30,000 the year before, Ms. Mawani, the board chairwoman, said.
A case similar to the one just decided in Canada came up this year in the United States. A Federal immigration judge ruled in March that a Nigerian woman living illegally in Portland, Ore., would not be deported to her native country because her two young daughters would probably face genital mutilation if they accompanied her.
But the Portland judge's ruling was not as sweeping as that of the Canadian panel. The judge, Kendall Warren, did not grant a request for asylum, which would have broken new ground, but merely annulled an expulsion order.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

335 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 8, 2015 Thursday

Hunger in the News: Child Hunger, Refugees, Burundi and Mass Incarceration

LENGTH: 290  words

Washington, D.C.: Bread for the World has issued the following news release:
"Congress must end child hunger in America," by William Lambers, The Courier-Journal. "It was President Harry Truman who said, "No nation is any healthier than its children." Yet, today almost 16 million children live in hunger in the United States." 
"Fleeing war and poverty, refugees heading toward Italy abandoned at sea," PBS News Hour. "Refugees fleeing war and poverty in North Africa and the Middle East often are forced to cross the Mediterranean sea in rickety, overcrowded boats. Recently, an increase in human smugglers abandoning these ships before reaching Europe have forced EU countries to take on these migrants and ships at unprecedented levels."
"Hunger Gnaws at Burundi's Soul," by Hannah McNeish, Voice of America. "Recent studies indicate Africa's little, and little-known, country of Burundi is the hungriest place on earth. War, poverty and overpopulation have left up to two thirds of the residents with chronic food shortages, stunting people's growth physically and also professionally, while rising demands for scarce resources pose serious problems for Burundi's stability. In Ngozi province, in the north, charities are using a variety of methods to fight the war on hunger."
"This map shows which states led the way on America's drive toward mass incarceration," by German Lopez, Vox. "Following the start of the war on drugs in the 1970s, America's prison population skyrocketed as the country locked up even the lowest-level drug offenders in hopes of tamping down on drug use and the crime wave of the 1960s through 1980s."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

337 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 23, 2017 Monday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Pages 49083 - 49084 [FR DOC # 2017-23140]

LENGTH: 668  words


Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:  
The President ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Presidential Determination No. 2017-13 of September 29, 2017-- Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Presidential Determination No. 2017-14 of September 30, 2017-- Presidential Determination With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 82 , No. 203 / Monday, October 23, 2017 / Presidential Documents ___________________________________________________________________ Title 3-- The President [[Page 49083]] Presidential Determination No. 2017-13 of September 29, 2017 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Memorandum for the Secretary of State By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), after appropriate consultations with the Congress, and consistent with the Report on Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 submitted to the Congress on September 27, 2017, I hereby determine and authorize as follows: The admission of up to 45,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest.  
This number includes persons admitted to the United States during FY 2018 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below. The admissions shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations: Africa................................................. 19,000 ...... East Asia.............................................. 5,000 ...... Europe and Central Asia................................ 2,000 ...... Latin America/Caribbean................................ 1,500 ...... Near East/South Asia................................... 17,500 ...... The number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2018 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members). Additionally, you are authorized, following notification of the appropriate committees of the Congress, to transfer unused admissions allocated to a region to one or more other regions, if greater admissions are needed for such region or regions. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States, and I accordingly designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2018, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. persons in Cuba b. persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. persons in Iraq d. persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador [[Page 49084]] e. persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location, in exceptional circumstances. You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                     (Presidential Sig.)  
                THE WHITE HOUSE,  
                    Washington, September 29, 2017  
[FR Doc. 2017-23140
 Filed 10-20-17; 11:15 am]
 Billing code 4710-10-P  

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

343 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The East Bay Times (California)

September 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump administration sets refugee admissions at historic low

BYLINE: Tatiana Sanchez

LENGTH: 674 words


HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration set a limit of 45,000 for refugee arrivals in 2018.

Citing safety and security concerns, the Trump administration said Wednesday that it will cap refugee admissions at 45,000 in the 2018 fiscal year, a historic low that refugee advocates say will exclude many of the worlds vulnerable populations.
Under the proposal to Congress, an estimated 19,000 refugees would be admitted from Africa; 17,000 from east South Asia; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia and 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean.
While stating the importance of the United States leadership role in humanitarian protection, the administration said during a news briefing that an integral part of this mission is to ensure that refugee resettlement opportunities only go to those who are eligible for such protection and who are not known to present a risk to the safety and security of our country. 
The limit is the lowest since 1980, the year legislation was implemented giving the president authority to determine a cap on refugees, according to the New York Times. The limit has never slipped lower than 67,000  the number that Ronald Reagan set in 1986  the Times said. In previous years, the U.S. had admitted an estimated 70,000 refugees annually. Former President Barack Obama had placed a 110,000 limit on refugees last year, in part to take in a growing number of Syrian refugees displaced around the world.
The announcement comes days after the Trump administration revealed new restrictions on visitors from eight countries  an expansion of the pre-existing travel ban that has spurred fierce legal debates over security, immigration and discrimination.
The new refugee ceiling is tragic and misguided, according to Mindy Berkowitz, executive director of Jewish Family Services of Silicon Valley in Los Gatos, one of just a few refugee resettlement agencies in Santa Clara County.
Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area and beyond.
The people that were looking to limit are the people who are escaping terrorism, she said. They want to live in peace and freedom. When they come here, they are so enthusiastic and ready to contribute.
Berkowitz said the nonprofit is paid per refugee arrival.
If were looking at these historically low levels, we stand to lose from our budgets hundreds of thousands of dollars. It mostly impacts us in terms of the staff that we hire.
Santa Clara County resettled 134 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, according to data compiled by the states Department of Social Services. Berkowitz, however, said state estimates are inaccurate. Jewish Family Services alone resettled 105 refugees between October 2016 and September, she said.
Meanwhile, Alameda County resettled 127 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, compared with 28 in Contra Costa County, state data shows.
We have recognized for many years that offering safe haven to the neediest among us helps advance American interests abroad, and it is devastating to see the White House ignoring this fact, said Karen Ferguson, executive director of the International Rescue Committee of Northern California in a statement. Locally, the IRC sees refugees being welcomed into Northern California and then giving back to their communities and to the economy, and are committed to continuing that work.
In a joint statement with U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Michigan), Rep. Zoe Lofgren called the cap an affront to the United States legacy as a protector of oppressed people.
Todays decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time since World War II, said Lofgren, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. It is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values that make America great.
Federal law requires a cabinet official to consult with Congress before a ceiling is set. But government officials said the administrations briefing to Congress on the cap came just days before the fiscal year starts on Oct 1.
The Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

344 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Refugee or migrant? Here's a primer

BYLINE: By Katie Kather kkather@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: RAMSEY COUNTY; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro; State

LENGTH: 594 words

Minnesota can expect trickle of Syrians
Minnesota has a long history of resettlement of refugees, dating back to World War II, according to the Minnesota Department of Human Services.
Now, tens of thousands of people from the Middle East and Africa are seeking safety in Europe at great risk. Many of them are from Syria; many will make their way to America.
President Barack Obama announced last week that the United States plans to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the coming year. 
So what does this all mean for Minnesota, and what is a refugee anyway?
WHAT IS A REFUGEE?
The terms refugee and migrant have been used interchangeably to describe the crisis in Europe, but are they the same?
A refugee is someone who "owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality, and is unable to, or owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country," according to the 1951 Refugee Convention from the United Nations.
Basically, refugees are those forced to leave their country to escape war or persecution.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees defines a migrant as someone who chooses to move in order to improve the future prospects of themselves and their families.
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN SYRIA?
Syria is in its fifth year of a brutal civil war that has led to 4 million Syrians seeking refuge in Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and Egypt. More than 11 million Syrians have been internally displaced, meaning they can no longer live in their homes, but still live in the country. Now, many Syrian refugees are fleeing to Europe.
The UNHCR says that a quarter of Syria's schools and half the country's hospitals have been destroyed in the conflict. The situation has been called the worst humanitarian disaster of our time.
The Minneapolis-based international nonprofit American Refugee Committee works in Syria, responding to violence against women and girls, providing water, sanitation and hygiene infrastructure and support the distribution of emergency items.
WHAT REFUGEES LIVE IN MINNESOTA?
Among the groups that have made Minnesota home are Bhutanese, Hmong from Laos, Iraqis, Karen from Burma, Liberians and Somalis. Last year alone, about 2,000 refugees were settled in Minnesota, according to the Department of Human Services.
Minneapolis is home to more Somalis than any other U.S. city and St. Paul has the largest Hmong community in the United States, according to Richfield-based resettlement agency Arrive Ministries.
HOW DO REFUGEES END UP HERE?
Arrive Ministries outlines a 13-step process that all refugees must go through before they come to the U.S. http://arriveministries.org/who-we-serve /about-refugees-asylees/the-refugee-process/).
In short, each refugee who comes to the United States goes through a series of agencies including the UNHCR, the U.S. Embassy, the State Department, the FBI and the CIA.
All refugees are then resettled through an agency that has a contract with the federal government to provide basic services for refugees during their first 90 days on American soil.
In Minnesota, those agencies are:
-- International Institute of Minnesota;
-- Arrive Ministries;
-- Minnesota Council of Churches Refugee Services;
-- Catholic Charities Diocese of St. Paul Migration and Refugee Services/Catholic Charities Diocese of Winona Refugee Resettlement Program;
-- Lutheran Social Services.
Katie Kather can be reached at 651-228-5006. Follow her at twitter.com/ktkather .

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A man runs away from Hungarian police spraying water on refugees at a border crossing into Hungary, near Horgos, Serbia, on Sept. 16, 2015. Small groups of refugees continued to sneak into Hungary on Wednesday, a day after the country sealed its border with Serbia and began arresting people trying to breach the razor-wire barrier, while a first group arrived in Croatia seeking another way into the European Union. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 St. Paul Pioneer Press
All Rights Reserved

345 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

June 21, 2018 Thursday

Countries should take in as many refugees as they can, Pope Francis says

BYLINE: Alessandra Tarantino | The Associated Press

LENGTH: 475 words

Aboard the papal plane o Pope Francis urged nations Thursday to take in as many refugees as they can integrate into their societies and to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life. 
Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children from parents who enter the U.S. illegally.
"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership of the U.S. bishops conference denouncing the separations as ''immoral."
On Wednesday, U.S. President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant children from their parents after being detained entering the United States without permission.
Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers' boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of rescued migrants.
He praised Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants rescued at sea and said all governments should take in as many refugees as their countries can handle.
"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution,
Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of reaching Europe and a better life.
"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said.
He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end up living in shantytowns.
The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and other abuse.
"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps of World War II," Francis said.
Francis' trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians, including by concretely working together for peace and justice in the world.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

346 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

July 14, 1990, Saturday, City Edition

U.S. often rejects refugees

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 981 words

 
It wasn't anything out of the ordinary. It was just another flimsy boat on the choppy seas, crammed with 108 Haitians seeking a better life. And, like most such sailors, they were being sent back home. Forty-eight of them drowned Tuesday as their boat was being towed by a Bahamian patrol ship.
 
    A brief report in the Miami Herald said it was tragic the Bahamas refused to be a sanctuary for the Haitians but allowed one of its islands to serve as a cemetery for these dead refugees. The St.  Petersburg Times gave the Haitian deaths a few sentences on Page 12A on Friday. But mostly, the deaths went unremarked. 
 
    Nobody knew who the refugees were or why they fled. And it wasn't clear how they had drowned. One radio report said the refugees panicked and ran toward one end of the boat, making it capsize. The dead Haitians were piled on a fishing boat and buried nearby. The surviving Haitians were taken for questioning.
 
    Although international agreements on refugees promise that people who face persecution won't be sent back against their will, many nations do so. Refugees from poor nations are often thought to be fleeing poverty rather than political persecution, and they are returned forcibly.
 
    "There is danger of refugees being killed or persecuted when they are sent back to their countries, but countries still do it," said Hiram Ruiz, a policy analyst at the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a non-profit group that monitors refugee policies around the world.
 
    The United States, the world's largest asylum-giver, is a major offender; last year, more than 5,000 Haitians, 4,000 Guatemalans and 4,700 Salvadorans were forcibly returned, according to the U.S.  Committee for Refugees.
 
    Immigration officials say they don't deport refugees. They only send away people who don't fit their definition of a refugee.  "Anybody can make the claim that they are persecuted," said Verne Jervis, a spokesman of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in Washington, D.C. "They have to show whether this fear is real, or whether they're coming to get away from poverty, to get a better job. The burden is on them to make their case credible."
 
    The United States gives refugee status to people who prove they can be threatened because of their race, religion, ethnicity or political opinions if they return to their home country, Jervis said.
 
    Haitians make up the largest number of refuge-seekers who are
 rejected because they're the largest number caught. Most Central Americans cross land borders and seek asylum after they've crossed into the United States.
 
    But most Haitians set out in small boats and are turned back by the Coast Guard before they arrive within U.S. boundaries.  Haitians who make it to the United States can file for asylum and are detained in camps while they wait to see if they can stay permanently. If they are rejected, they are deported.
 
    As part of a special $ 30-million program to prevent an influx of Haitians, the Coast Guard monitors international waters to spot refugee-filled boats. Immigration officials on board question their motives. "They ask each of them why they've left Haiti, if they have any fear of returning to Haiti," Jervis said.
 
    "Most of them are very honest. They say they're coming to the United States to find work, so they can live better."
 
    And, rejected as refugees, they are taken back to Haiti on Coast Guard ships because their own boats are too flimsy. The Coast Guard sinks the Haitian skiffs "so they won't be a danger to other vessels."
 
    About 20,000 Haitians have been returned since the program began nine years ago. Thousands of others are deported out of D Miami and other centers because they aren't considered refugees.
 
    Of the 350 boats intercepted by the Coast Guard, less than two dozen Haitians have been accepted as refugees, Jervis said. In comparison, America accepted 29,000 refugees from the Soviet Union last year.
 
    Refugee groups say those who flee poor nations are unfairly suspected of being economic gain-seekers, but refugees from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are easily accepted as their persecution is assumed.
 
     It's hard to distinguish between economic and political suffering, said Ruiz, the Committee for Refugees analyst. "The people who were leaving East Germany said they were looking for freedom and a better life. The political dimension was there, but there was an  economic difference, too."
 
    And in a country like Vietnam or Haiti, political persecution can take an economic form, when jobs are denied and property is seized by officials.
 
    Other nations also have been known to turn back asylum-seekers.  Mexico, the source of many economic migrants to the United States, last year turned away at least 46,000 refugees from neighboring nations like Guatemala and Salvador.
 
    Malaysia has in the last year towed away more than 6,500 Vietnamese boat people and left them on the high seas. About 950 refugees voluntarily went back to Vietnam from Hong Kong, where 56,000 refugees wait in camps to be accepted by America and Europe. Many of the refugees were declared economic migrants, and impatient with their slow return, Hong Kong has speeded the process by forcibly airlifting some of them.
 
    South Africa turned away 34,000 Mozambicans fleeing the war in their country, while its burdened neighbor Malawi has given asylum to so many that one in 10 of its people today is a refugee.
 
    An international conference on refugees was scheduled to be held this year in Geneva but was postponed because of disagreements between governments.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Times Publishing Company

356 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 21, 2014 Friday

Washington: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015 Memorandum for the Secretary of State

LENGTH: 685  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Federal Register, The Government of USA has issued the following notice: 
[Federal Register Volume 79, Number 225 (Friday, November 21, 2014)]
[Presidential Documents]
[Pages 69753-69754]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Printing Office [www.gpo.gov]
[FR Doc No: 2014-27860]

 Presidential Documents  
Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 225 / Friday, November 21, 2014 / 
Presidential Documents
[[Page 69753]]

 Presidential Determination No. 2014-17 of September 30, 
 2014

Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions 
 for Fiscal Year 2015
 Memorandum for the Secretary of State
 In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and 
 Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and 
 after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I 
 hereby make the following determinations and authorize 
 the following actions:
 The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United 
 States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 is justified by 
 humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national 
 interest; provided that this number shall be understood 
 as including persons admitted to the United States 
 during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement 
 assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions 
 program, as provided below.
 The admissions numbers shall be allocated among 
 refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United 
 States in accordance with the following regional 
 allocations; provided that the number of admissions 
 allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons 
 admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with 
 Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 
 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
 Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as 
 contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 
 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members):



   Africa................................................. 17,000 ......
   East Asia.............................................. 13,000 ......
   Europe and Central Asia................................ 1,000 ......
   Latin America and Caribbean............................ 4,000 ......
   Near East and South Asia............................... 33,000 ......
   Unallocated Reserve.................................... 2,000 ......
 The 2,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be 
 allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon 
 providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of 
 the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use 
 unallocated admissions in regions where the need for 
 additional admissions arises.
 Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary 
 Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized 
 to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular 
 region to one or more other regions, if there is a need 
 for greater admissions for the region or regions to 
 which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent 
 with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee 
 Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that 
 assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for 
 admission to the United States as part of the overseas 
 refugee admissions program will contribute to the 
 foreign policy interests of the United States and 
 designate such persons for this purpose.
 Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 
 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with 
 the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2015, the 
 following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be 
 considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the 
 United States within their countries of nationality or 
 habitual residence:
 a. Persons in Cuba
 b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics
[[Page 69754]]
 c. Persons in Iraq
 d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador
 e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified 
 by a United States Embassy in any location
 You are authorized and directed to publish this 
 determination in the Federal Register.


 (Presidential Sig.)
 THE WHITE HOUSE,
 Washington, September 30, 2014
[FR Doc. 2014-27860
Filed 11-20-14; 11:15 am]
Billing code 4710-10

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

359 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Groups Accepting Donations to Africans

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

Following is a list of private American organizations accepting contributions for relief services in Rwanda and Zaire. Agencies listed are members of Interaction, a Washington-based association of more than 150 nonprofit relief groups with offices in the United States; Interaction compiled the list.

 Adventist Development and Relief Agency
12501 Old Columbia Pike
Silver Spring, Md. 20904 

 American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee
711 Third Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10017
 
 American Jewish World Service
989 Avenue of the Americas
New York, N.Y. 10018
 
 Africare
440 R Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20001
 
 American Red Cross
P.O. Box 37243
Washington, D.C. 20013
 
 American Refugee Committee
2344 Nicollet Avenue South, Suite 350
Minneapolis, Minn. 55404

 Baptist World Aid
6733 Curran Street
McLean, Va. 22102-6005

 Brother's Brother Foundation
1501 Reedsdale Street, Suite 3005
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15233-2341

 Care
151 Ellis Street N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30303-2439

 Catholic Relief Services
P.O. Box 17090
Baltimore, Md. 21203

 Christian Reformed World Relief
2850 Kalamazoo Avenue S.E.
Grand Rapids, Mich. 49560

 Direct Relief International
27 South La Patera Lane
Santa Barbara, Calif. 93117-3251

 Doctors Without Borders
11 East 26th Street
New York, N.Y. 10010
 Doctors of the World
375 West Broadway
New York, N.Y. 10012

 Food for the Hungry
7729 East Greenway Road
Scottsdale, Ariz. 85260

 International Medical Corps
12233 West Olympic Blvd., #280
Los Angeles, Calif. 90064-1052

 International Rescue Committee
122 East 42d Street
New York, N.Y. 10168-1289

 Interchurch Medical Assistance
P.O. Box 429
New Windsor, Md. 21776

 Lutheran World Relief
P.O. Box 92949
Rochester, N.Y. 14692

 Map International
2200 Glynco Parkway
P.O. Box 215000
Brunswick, Ga. 31521-5000

 Mercy Corps International
3030 S.W. First Avenue
Portland, Ore. 97201

 Operation USA
8320 Melrose Avenue, Suite 200
Los Angeles, Calif. 90069

 Oxfam America
26 West Street
Boston, Mass. 02111

 Salvation Army World Service Office
615 Slaters Lane
P.O. Box 269
Alexandria, Va. 22313

 Save The Children
P.O. 975R
Westport, Conn. 06881

 United Methodist Committee on Relief
Advance 3101275-4
475 Riverside Drive
New York, N.Y. 10115

 U.S. Committee for Unicef
333 East 38th Street
New York, N.Y. 10016

 World Relief
Department 3
P.O. Box WRC
Wheaton, Ill. 60189

 World Vision
P.O. Box 70005
Tacoma, Wash. 98471-0005

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

360 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 16, 2015 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice: 

  

    Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 80 , No. 200 / Friday, October 16, 2015 / Presidential Documents [[Page 62433]] Presidential Determination No. 2015-14 of September 29, 2015 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of up to 85,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.  
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members): Africa................................................. 25,000 East Asia.............................................. 13,000 Europe and Central Asia................................ 4,000 Latin America/Caribbean................................ 3,000 Near East/South Asia................................... 34,000 Unallocated Reserve.................................... 6,000 The 6,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2016, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics [[Page 62434]] c. Persons in Iraq d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                 

                     (Presidential Sig.)

 

                 THE WHITE HOUSE,

 

                     Washington, September 29, 2015

 

 [FR Doc. 2015-26493

 Filed 10-15-15; 8:45 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

361 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 16, 2015 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice: 

  

    Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 80 , No. 200 / Friday, October 16, 2015 / Presidential Documents [[Page 62433]] Presidential Determination No. 2015-14 of September 29, 2015 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of up to 85,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.  
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members): Africa................................................. 25,000 East Asia.............................................. 13,000 Europe and Central Asia................................ 4,000 Latin America/Caribbean................................ 3,000 Near East/South Asia................................... 34,000 Unallocated Reserve.................................... 6,000 The 6,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2016, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics [[Page 62434]] c. Persons in Iraq d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                 

                     (Presidential Sig.)

 

                 THE WHITE HOUSE,

 

                     Washington, September 29, 2015

 

 [FR Doc. 2015-26493

 Filed 10-15-15; 8:45 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

363 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Sunday News (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

September 2, 2007 Sunday

Final refuge Where and when; 
'Rain in a Dry Land' documentary follows Somali refugees as they begin new lives in United States

BYLINE: Michael Long

SECTION: H; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA 

After a year of painstaking edits, documentary filmmaker Anne Makepeace was left with just 87 minutes of film.
Years of pouring her time, emotions and capital into "Rain in a Dry Land," a thoughtful account of two Somali refugee families who relocate to the United States, had crystallized into less than an hour and a half of celluloid.
The film, which earlier this summer opened the 20th anniversary season of the PBS "P.O.V." documentary series, has a back story as compelling as the finished product. 
In March 2003, Makepeace read an article in the New York Times about a cultural-orientation class for Somali Bantu refugees. The group of ethnic Africans consisted of illiterate subsistence farmers who had been driven from their fertile homeland and were living in a refugee camp in Kakuma, Kenya. They were Moslems, and the thought of thousands of these refugees relocating to a post-Sept. 11 America captivated Makepeace.
"It's the stories that just take you by storm and sweep you away that you feel you have to do. You sweat blood for them," Makepeace said in a telephone interview from her home in Lakeville, Conn. "I'm very happy with the way this film turned out and with all the serendipitous things that made it work."
"Serendipity" is a kind term to describe the problems and occasionally harrowing events that shaped this film.
First, Makepeace spent eight months "diplomatically harassing" the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization of Migration, which organized the orientation classes and arranged for the refugees to travel to America. Winning the support of these organizations was the key to moving forward, she said.
Once Makepeace was inside the country, the language proved a formidable task. She unwittingly hired a translator who had made bitter enemies among the people she wanted to film (think death threats) before she employed the head of a literacy program who was himself a Somali Bantu and a trusted member of the community.
When shooting scenes in the literacy classroom, the translator would sit in a separate room with headphones and a microphone, translating for the cinematographers as the teacher introduced his charges to exotic appliances, such as a refrigerator and stove, and informed them of cultural differences. For instance, in America, he said, men are not permitted to force women to have sex.
Makepeace and her crew also had to contend with 6 p.m. curfews at the U.N. compound where they were staying (it's not safe to venture out after dark) and a general lack of simple technology on location (lights, for instance).
During the year and a half of shooting the refugees in their American homes, she often found herself without a translator, "shooting from the gut."
"We would just keep shooting and try to sense what was dramatic, and we didn't find out what was going on until months later," she recalled. "I was fortunate, through the network of people I got to know who work in refugee resettlement, to find a guy in Boston - he's Somali, not Bantu, but he had grown up near the Bantu, so he knew the dialect really well - and he was a brilliant man, fluent in English."
At first, she just sent her Boston translator footage that had been shot stateside, but after hearing the nuances he uncovered in the Bantu dialect, she had him retranslate the footage shot in Africa. Suddenly, observations such as "When I get to America, I will take my children to school" became "When my eyes and ears arrive at a place where the breeze is blowing, I will take my children to school."
"Talk about lost in translation," Makepeace said.
Documentary films have long been the chosen format for rooting out basic humanity, and by poring over footage and parsing translations, filmmakers uncover the most luminous elements of their stories.
"You're bringing into the foreground the most moving, most compelling moments that move the story forward," Makepeace said. "You have to have the material there in the first place, but it is an artful arrangement of that material that makes or breaks the film."
When she considers what she wants people to take away from "Rain in a Dry Land," Makepeace thinks about a shot at the end of the film: The camera pulls in tight on Arbai, a female refugee. Close up, it's hard to tell what she's doing. Then the camera pulls back to reveal the vast warehouse in which Arbai is operating a floor-scrubbing machine. She is an American janitor.
Makepeace, who won an Emmy for her cinematic portrait of famed war photographer Robert Capa, hopes "Rain in a Dry Land" will change people's attitudes toward immigrants and refugees and encourage tolerance in communities and in the halls of government.
"[I hope] when we see immigrants, whether African or Hispanic or whatever, doing these kinds of jobs that have generally been invisible to most of us, that they will become visible in our midst," she said. "And that when people see them, they'll realize that there's a whole incredible story behind them, of suffering, loss, resilience, courage and hope and the success of bringing their families to safety."
Ephrata Public Library, 550 S. Reading Road, will show "Rain in a Dry Land" at 7 p.m. Monday, Sept. 10, as part of the Reality @ Your Library documentary film series. For more information, call 738-9291 or visit www. ephratapubliclibrary.org.
"Rain in a Dry Land," 7 p.m. Monday, Sept. 10, at Ephrata Public Library, 550 S. Reading Road, Ephrata, part of the documentary film series Reality @ Your Library. For more information, call 738-9291 or visit ephratapubliclibrary.org.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.  
All Rights Reserved   

364 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

September 25, 2015 Friday  
FINAL EDITION

Editorial: U.S. refugee policy is not the least we can do, but it's close

BYLINE:  By the Editorial Board 

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 699 words

For the first time in history, a pope addressed a joint session of the U.S. Congress on Thursday. Pope Francis, as nicely as he could, admonished the United States for not doing more for immigrants, whether they be from Mexico, Central America or Syrian refugees.
"We must not be taken aback by their numbers, but rather view them as persons, seeing their faces and listening to their stories, trying to respond as best we can to their situation," the pope said. "To respond in a way which is always humane, just and fraternal." 
Well, that's one approach, but not the one Congress has taken. Immigrant-bashing is de rigueur on the GOP presidential campaign trail, and the Obama administration has been slow to respond to the Syrian refugee crisis.
This week Secretary of State John Kerry reminded the world that America is "a land of second chances and a beacon of hope." The United States, he said, will gradually open its borders to 30,000 more refugees over the next two years, including 10,000 more Syrians.
That's not the least we could do. But it's pretty close.
It cannot charitably be described as adequate, given the times and the magnitude of a crisis that U.S. polices in the Middle East had a lot to do with creating. Certainly it falls short of hopes held by many progressives, including some former Obama administration officials.
Then there are Republicans, who are tripping over each other to monger fear, avoiding even a modest offer of help.
Congressional leaders and GOP presidential candidates have ratcheted up anti-Muslim rhetoric. Some ignorantly equate all Muslims with terrorists and ignore Christian immigrants who are part of the mix. They argue that nearby nations should take all those fleeing warfare and worry that terrorists will outfox the lengthy vetting the U.S. conducts of asylum seekers, a process that takes up to two years to complete.
Such reactions belie America's history as a land of opportunity. This year, the U.S. accepted about 70,000 refugees, most of them from Myanmar, Iraq and Somalia. It wasn't enough. Iraqis who risked their lives to help U.S. soldiers and our allies to oust Saddam Hussein still face an uphill struggle to win the entrance lottery. Refugees from nations like Syria face even steeper odds.
Since the Syrian civil war began in 2011, with rebels seeking the ouster of President Bashar Assad, the U.S. has admitted only 1,600 Syrians. To put that in context: Lebanon, a nation of 4.5 million, is now home to 1.1 million Syrian refugees, while Jordan, with a population of 6.5 million, has about 630,000 - some now heading to Europe because of dwindling aid and work opportunities.
In total, some 4 million Syrians have left in the wake of chemical weapons and bombs unleashed by Assad and Islamic State terrorists.
Of late, German Chancellor Angela Merkel appears to have the biggest heart, aided by a post-World War II constitution that requires Germany to take in, house, feed and generally provide for refugees of war and evil dictators.
The guilt of World War II is hard at work on behalf of today's refugees. Migrants like the economic opportunities that Germany, Sweden, and much of Europe seem to offer. Or at least it did until recently. Now the European Union is shuddering from the complex tide of refugees.
The United Nations estimates that 80 percent of those entering Europe through the Balkans are from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. The other 20 percent are from equally harsh homelands including Pakistan, Bangladesh, Burundi and sub-Saharan Africa.
A unified Europe is critical, both for migrants and for economic security. With Hungary posting ads in Lebanon and Jordan warning migrants it will harshly treat unauthorized entrants, the civilized world will rely on the European Union having the strength to rise to the challenges, not shrink into sparring separatists. U.S. exceptionalism does not apply here.
The best the U.S. can muster is an inadequate level of financial assistance to care for displaced Syrians in other lands and a modest hike in immigration. America's fears suggest the terrorists have won.
(This editorial was commissioned from freelance editorialists and edited by the Post-Dispatch editorial board.)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:    EDITORIAL: U.S. REFUGEE POLICIES INADEQUATE 

GRAPHIC:  Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of Congress on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Sept. 24, 2015, making history as the first pontiff to do so. Listening behind the pope are Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

366 of 996 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

November 27, 2017 Monday  
2 Tampa Edition

CHIEF OF A NEW VILLAGE

BYLINE: PAUL GUZZO, CHARLIE KAIJO, TIMES STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

DATELINE: TAMPA 


HIGHLIGHT: Sadiki Bertin has struggled to survive since his early years in Congo. Finally in America, he still struggles - but holds onto hope.

As a boy, Sadiki Bertin watched his father, a village chief in the Democratic Republic of Congo, feed the hungry, find work for the unemployed and take in the homeless.
But when Bertin was 16, war decimated his village of Lulinda. His parents and 14 of his 15 siblings died in a massacre.
He speaks little of his traumatic past. Instead, he is focused on his struggle to survive - not in central Africa, but in the United States, where his challenge is economic. He must find work to feed his family in a nation where his native tongue, Swahili, opens few doors.
Bertin, 34, is among an estimated 250 Congolese refugees living in the Tampa Bay area. He arrived last year, as did 185 others who relocated through an Obama-era refugee expansion that was halted by the Trump administration. 
The Christian-majority DRCled Syria and all other nations in 2016 and through the first three quarters of 2017 as a country of origin among U.S. refugees.
Like Bertin, some came with big families and bigger aspirations, soon tempered by reality.
He grew to adulthood on rations of beans in refugee camps, an odyssey that began in 2000, when he fled the DRC. A teen, he carried his infant niece, Jeanette Echa, assuring his surviving sister that he would keep the child safe.
Zambia, to the immediate south, was as far as he could go.
"I was 16," he said. "I didn't have any money."
As the years went on, he moved among camps in Zambia, Tanzania and Kenya. Once there, he stayed put.
His homeland's problems dated back to the mid-1990s when a bloody civil war in neighboring Rwanda spilled across borders, sparking what some historians call Africa's World War because of the number of proxy nations involved.
"The Congolese population has not participated in these wars," said Francisca Vigaud-Walsh, senior advocate at Refugees International. "They are just the victims."
It was in Zambia that Bertin met his wife, Cecelia Kashindi Charlotte, now 30, who gave birth to their first child in 2003. Five of their six children were born in the camps. The sixth would take his first breath in the United States.
And it was in Kenya, a decade ago, that Bertin first stepped into a leadership role among refugees, following in his father's village chief footsteps. The camps contained a mix of Congolese, Sudanese, Somalis, Ethiopians and Eritreans, Fights broke out at water pumps. Armed looting for food was common, he said, and so was rape.
Bertin formed night patrols, raised money to install outdoor lights to deter wrongdoers and served as a mediator between factions. He worked on his English and tutored kids. Through a church - he's Catholic - he volunteered as a social worker.
When he gave up hope of establishing a normal life in Africa for his family, he turned to the United States.
The vetting process, which included background checks and health screenings, took three years. That's not unusual, according to Alexandra Lamarche, an advocate at Refugees International.
"It may sound like something that can be done fairly quickly, but it takes an average of two-plus years," she said.
Although Bertin paid little attention to American politics, his August 2016 arrival was well timed. President Barack Obama had raised the ceiling on refugee admissions from 70,000 in the 2015 fiscal year to 110,000 starting last October. President Donald Trump would scale back the cap to 45,000.
---
Bertin had long heard of America's wealth and its generosity and he believed that if he was willing to work hard, prosperity would follow.
"America is not a poor person," he concluded from afar. "No one has low income. Everything is in America. We expect everything will be fine."
He thought he'd find work for $20 an hour and maybe start his own business. But he didn't have the education or the resume, and while he speaks some English, his accent is thick.
He landed a part-time job at McDonald's, followed by a full-time job at PACA Foods, which makes dry-blended food products such as seasonings.
His wife was employed, too, at Captain's Fine Foods in St. Petersburg until their new baby arrived. They have yet to find affordable day care so she can rejoin the workforce.
Then, Bertin's shift at PACA Foods changed, with a new start time of 5 a.m. No bus could get him there on time.
He went nearly a month before finding temporary $8-an-hour work as a packager for Hit Promotional Products in Largo for 40 hours a week.
The job ends after the holidays, he said. He relies on a ride from a friend. If his friend changes employers, Bertin could be out of work even sooner.
He twice failed the written portion of the driver's test. It is not offered in Swahili or French, the two languages he can read best.
When refugee families arrive, the federal government initially pays about $1,000 per person to help with resettlement. Agencies such as Lutheran Services Florida assist in the search for work, lodging, schools and doctors.
After a few months, families are expected to sustain themselves, with some oversight by the nonprofit.
Even when working, the low-paying jobs available to him make it difficult for Bertin to cover an electric bill and the $1,100 rent he pays for a 1,400-square-foot home in Sulphur Springs.
He has a family of nine, counting his wife. Their children range in age from under a year to 13. His niece is now 17.
Theirs is not the largest of the Congolese refugee households. In the DRC, a big family symbolizes opulence as a homegrown workforce, according to Dillon Mahoney, a professor in the University of South Florida's anthropology department.
"In their culture, a large family is a blessing," agreed Lourdes Mesias, director of refugee and immigration services for Lutheran Services Florida. "But when here making minimum wage, housing is not affordable."
---
When not at his paying job, Bertin finds plenty to do.
He volunteers as a translator for the mostly Swahili-speaking refugee community, helping others to navigate government bureaucracy for economic aid and education.
He aims to be a Tampa incarnation of his father, the village chief.
One day, he walked a mile to disarm a family's broken, blaring fire alarm.
Another day, he served as the go-between for a family and apartment management.
On the Wednesday before Thanksgiving he helped Lutheran Services Florida distribute donated food to Congolese refugees and then on Thanksgiving hosted a meal at a friend's home for multiple Congolese families.
"Whatever they need," he said. "I am only interested in helping people."
Magda Elkadi Saleh, president of the nonprofit Radiant Hands, which provides refugees with clothing, furniture and food, said she can always count on Bertin to welcome a new Congolese family to the area, sometimes enlisting a dance troupe to perform a routine native to the culture.
And he's not the only local organizer. DRC refugee Jean-Paul Amani, 36, who arrived last December, provides similar services. Like Bertin, he has a large family but also cannot find work beyond something temporary.
"We all want to become socially responsible Americans," Amani said.
Eugenie Umurutasate, 39, a refugee from Burundi who arrived in 2010 and now works as a lab tech at Brandon Hospital, has a women's group for DRC refugees.
"We are finding ways to survive together," she said.
---
Bertin says he is not looking for handouts but wants to help himself and fellow refugees to become contributing members of the community.
He wants to form a nonprofit to combat their economic issues. Through it he hopes to purchase vans to provide transportation to work, and start English language classes and vocational training to expand career options.
The children need help, too. School is doubly hard due to the language issue, so Bertin would like to start a tutoring service.
"I want the kids to be more than me," he said. "That is the dream."
Even amid the challenges, he remains thankful to his new nation and optimistic that his work ethic will open the doors of prosperity for his family and all local Congolese refugees.
"I'm happy with the USA because I hope I will change my life and my kids will get an education," he said. "In the refugee camps, I was losing hope to reach my goals. Blessings to God because he brought me to the land of opportunity."
Sitting on a tan thrift store couch in his spartan home, Bertin asked his 11-year-old son in English to turn off the bathroom light. The boy stared blankly at his father. Bertin asked twice more.
Finally, and with a sigh, he repeated the request a fourth time but in their native Swahili. His son immediately complied.
"I say everything three times in English before our language," Bertin said. "It's hard. We'll do it."
Contact Paul Guzzo at pguzzo@tampabay.com Follow @PGuzzoTimes.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Sadiki Bertin, center,watches television with his wife, Cecelia Kashindi Charlotte, left, and children Desire and Mary, and a niece, Jeanette Echa, 17. They are among about 250 Congolese refugees living in the Tampa Bay area. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Sadiki Bertin ponders the future after learning three of his friends and their families were to be evicted from their apartments. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Bertin takes a call while walkinghome from the bus stop with his groceries. The trip to the store and Amscot took three hours. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Cecelia Kashindi Charlotte calls a friend on Facetime after the birth of their sixth child. Nurse Lolade Agboola is at right. Their other five children were born in refugee camps. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Bertin's ride honks because she must get to work. He gestures for her to wait so he can finish talking to the newly resettled Mamboleo family about their needs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2017 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

369 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 11, 2016 Tuesday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017 Pages 70315 - 70316 [FR DOC # 2016-24736]

LENGTH: 625  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:

  

 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 81 , No. 196 / Tuesday, October 11, 2016 / Presidential Documents [[Page 70315]] Presidential Determination No. 2016-13 of September 28, 2016 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of up to 110,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.  
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members): Africa......................... 35,000 East Asia...................... 12,000 Europe and Central Asia........ 4,000 Latin America and the Caribbean 5,000 Near East and South Asia....... 40,000 Unallocated Reserve............ 14,000 The 14,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2017, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. Persons in Iraq [[Page 70316]] d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                 

                     (Presidential Sig.)

 

                 THE WHITE HOUSE,

 

                     Washington, September 28, 2016

 

 [FR Doc. 2016-24736

 Filed 10-7-16; 11:15 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

370 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 11, 2016 Tuesday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017 Pages 70315 - 70316 [FR DOC # 2016-24736]

LENGTH: 625  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:

  

 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 81 , No. 196 / Tuesday, October 11, 2016 / Presidential Documents [[Page 70315]] Presidential Determination No. 2016-13 of September 28, 2016 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of up to 110,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.  
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members): Africa......................... 35,000 East Asia...................... 12,000 Europe and Central Asia........ 4,000 Latin America and the Caribbean 5,000 Near East and South Asia....... 40,000 Unallocated Reserve............ 14,000 The 14,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2017, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. Persons in Iraq [[Page 70316]] d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                 

                     (Presidential Sig.)

 

                 THE WHITE HOUSE,

 

                     Washington, September 28, 2016

 

 [FR Doc. 2016-24736

 Filed 10-7-16; 11:15 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

372 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

October 29, 2001 Monday  
 Late Edition - Final 

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION; 
Refugees at America's Door Find It Closed After Attacks

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

As many as 20,000 refugees from across the world, cleared to come to the United States to escape persecution in their homelands, have had their arrival here delayed indefinitely in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.
     What is in effect a temporary moratorium on refugee admissions has resulted from both concerns about security and the fact that a White House consumed by its fight against terrorism -- here and in Afghanistan -- has not issued its annual refugee quota, administration officials said. 
 For now, the nation's door remains closed to refugees, including women fleeing the Taliban, Iraqis fleeing the regime of Saddam Hussein, children escaping civil war in Sierra Leone.  Refugee resettlement groups say many of these people have been longtime residents of disease-prone, star-crossed refugee camps. 
And so, if the Sept. 11 hijackings exposed the alarmingly large gaps in the government's ability to track who comes into the country, they also made indirect casualties out of otherwise deserving refugees.
State Department officials say that they regret the situation, but that the policy is justified given the heightened alert in the country. They say that the policy will stay in place until the department completes a thorough review of security clearances for all refugees seeking to come into the country.
In addition, the White House, preoccupied by other concerns, has not yet issued its annual order setting the number of refugees the nation will ultimately accept during the current fiscal year, which began on Oct. 1.
A State Department official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said in an interview last week that it was impossible to predict when the White House would act. "The security climate that we are in requires us to take every precaution that every person coming in is properly vetted," the official said.
As a consequence, refugee organizations say, about 40 Afghans who were scheduled to arrive at Kennedy International Airport from Pakistan on Sept. 29 never left. Razia Ahmed Gul had qualified for a visa under a refugee program for Afghan widows and expected to leave Quetta, Pakistan, with her five children last month. The family even sold its furniture to raise money for the trip. But they are now stuck and facing eviction from their apartment.
Elsewhere, in a refugee camp in Gambia, a batch of 17 refugees fleeing civil war in Sierra Leone, mostly women with grandchildren in tow, were supposed to leave for New York in mid-September. They remain in the camp.
There is, too, a family of Armenian Christians from Iran, including a woman who is terminally ill, whose flight out of Vienna was canceled. A Jewish family from Ukraine, scheduled to fly out of Moscow last week, has been stuck there, waiting for word from Washington. 
All those who have been approved have undergone a medical review, a security check and a one-on-one interview with an American official overseas.
There are up to 20,000 refugees in similar situations worldwide; all had been approved for entry into the United States as refugees fleeing persecution in their homelands, according to Immigrant and Refugee Services of America-U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy and resettlement organization in Washington.
In another measure of the pullback on refugees, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which interviews potential refugees in camps, has called back most of its field workers for security reasons. No potential refugees are being screened for entry except for those who can make it to a handful of United States embassies that are still conducting interviews.
Advocates for refugees say that they understand the need for careful scrutiny, but that they worry about a prolonged delay. "You have refugees who are condemned to a life in a refugee camp, which means not only an uncertain future but perhaps no future at all," said Robert J. Carey, vice president of the International Rescue Committee, an agency based in New York City that helps refugees come into the country. "It would be a great irony and a double tragedy for the United States, in part because of a very legitimate security reason, to withdraw its future commitment to refugees."
The annual quota for refugees coming into the United States has declined steadily for most of the last decade. In the 2001 fiscal year the refugee cap was set at 80,000; about 68,000 of them made it in. For the 2002 fiscal year, the State Department had proposed a ceiling of 70,000, most of them to come from Africa, countries in what was the Soviet Union, and Central and South Asia. 
The State Department's proposed numbers are customarily submitted to Congress, where they are occasionally tinkered with but usually approved with little or no controversy. Sometime around Oct. 1, the annual refugee quota -- a presidential directive, as it is called -- is issued by the White House. 
The House of Representatives has approved the State Department's proposed numbers this year, but the Senate has yet to do so. While a one- or two-week delay is not unusual, refugee resettlement officials say they cannot recall the last time the directive was nearly a month overdue.
Then again, as the State Department official said last week, government business has hardly been business as usual in recent weeks. Once Senate approval is received and the presidential directive is issued saying how many refugees will be allowed in, the official said, "We will have a clear idea -- a clearer idea -- of what the new security requirements are going to be, so we can pretty much start moving ahead on refugee resettlement." 
Neither State Department nor immigration officials would say what new security measures would be put into place.
For the time being, security concerns, war and distractions on Capitol Hill have indefinitely delayed a new life for a family of 14 from Ethiopia, members of the Oromo ethnic minority group who have lived in a refugee camp in Kenya since May 1996. They were scheduled to leave on Sept. 25 and join a relative in San Diego. Their flight was canceled and never rebooked, according to officials with the International Rescue Committee, which was assigned their case. 
A chartered flight of Afghan refugees, mostly widows and their children, was scheduled to leave Islamabad for New York on Sept. 13. And a commercial jet bound for New York City, carrying 40 refugees with one-way tickets in hand, was supposed to leave in late September. Neither jet got off the ground.
Lavinia Limon, a former State Department official in the Clinton administration who is now executive director of Immigrant and Refugee Services of America, said she was sympathetic to the need for vigilance in admitting people to the country. 
But, she said, someone who wanted to come into the United States to inflict harm would be unlikely to take the refugee route, which usually involves spending some time living in a refugee camp, "often on the margins of existence." 
Refugees already undergo the most stringent background checks of any people seeking admission to the United States. 
"If you wanted to come to this country as a terrorist, coming as a refugee has to be the stupidest way to come," Ms. Limon said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Razia Ahmed Gul, left, had qualified for a visa under a refugee program for Afghan widows, but her family's entry into America must now wait. (Robert Nickelsberg for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

373 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

 March 8, 1979, Thursday, Final Edition

 Carter Seeking Major Revision Of Refugee Laws;
Carter Seeking Major Revision of Refugee Laws

BYLINE:  By Christopher Dickey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION:  First Section; A1

LENGTH: 769 words

The Carter administration expects to submit to Congress today the first comprehensive overhaul of U.S. refugee laws since 1952, according to State and Justice department officials.
The bill, written during five months of close consultation between the administration and the Senate Judiciary Committee staff, comes at a time when the number of refugees in Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa and Latin America has reached crisis proportions.  There are now more people seeking permanent resettlement outside their homelands than at any time since the end of World War II.
The new legislation provides for a normal annual flow of at least 50,000 refugees a year into the United States, but the president, after consultation with Congress, could raise that figure before the beginning of any given year. 
If an emergency situation arises, such as the surge of hundreds of thousands of refugees who have fled Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia in recent months, the president would also have the power to admit as many of them as he deemed of special concern to the United States.  The legislation does not set a ceiling on the number who can be brought into the country under such circumstances.
Since World War II an average of about 40,000 refugees a year have been allowed into the United States, including the massive influxes after the Cuban revolution and the fall of Saigon.
The new legislation calls for considerable federal assistance in the relocation and resettlement of the refugees, including extensive educational programs.  Most refugees would be eligible for federally subsidized welfare assistance for up to two yeas after their arrival, though past experience suggests that the vast majority are financially independent of government aid after a few months.
An administration study that accompanied a recent draft of the bill estimates the total cost to the taxpayer for refugee relocation and resettlement at just over $1 billion dollars over the next five years if the flow is kept to 50,000.
If the influx is 100,000 a year, however, the five-year cost would be about $1.7 billion.
The analysis suggests that "most of the same costs would be incurred in any event if a comparable number of refugee admissions were made available under existing law."
At present the only people who may be admitted under normal procedures are those fleeing communist regimes or the Middle East.  As a result it has been extremely difficult for refugees from right-wing oppression to obtain asylum in the United States.
A proposed new definition of "refugee" would apply worldwide to anyone who is outside his or her country and unable or unwilling to return because of persecution, or a well-founded fear of it, stemming from race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.
Because of the limited definition in the past, and the fact that only 17,400 refugees a year were allowed into the United States even if they met it, most refugees have had to come into the United States under the emergency "parole authority" of the attorney general.
This provision in the current law was originally intended to allow in only individual refugees under highly specialized circumstances -- not, as has been the practice since the mid-1950s, scores or even hundreds of thousands of displaced people at a time.  Returned to its position as a limited measure, the parole authority remains a part of the administration bill.
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) has been a prime mover in attempts to revise refugee law.  He and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Peter W. Rodino Jr. (D-N.J.) are expected to introduce the administration proposal.
"For too long our policy toward refugee assistance [has] been ad hoc and has lacked effective planning and efficient programming," Kennedy said recently.  "We have admitted refugees in fits and starts because our immigration law has been inadequate, discriminatory and totally out of touch with today's needs."
Previous legislation was stalled in the Senate Judiciary Committee but Kennedy -- who is now to the committee chairman -- said that he is optimistic about passage of the administration's bill.
Currently there are at least 200,000 refugees in Indochina alone who would be affected by the legislation if it passes.
At present, both Australia and France accept more Indochinese refugees in proportion to their population than the United States does.  Israel, Germany and Britain have all resettled large numbers of refugees for whom they feel they have special responsibilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

378 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

December 18, 2004 Saturday  
FIVE STAR LATE LIFT EDITION

Mama Zed

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 979 words

LOCAL HERO
AT THIS TIME OF YEAR, Zed Minale likes to remind people that Jesus himself was a refugee. "Look at where he was born," she says in her lyrical French- and African-accented English. "They went from house to house and nobody wanted them. The place he was born, it was not unlike the places these people came from." 
Zed Minale (MINN-alay) gestures across the crowded one-room office, the room at the inn, the one-room headquarters of the African Refugee and Immigration Service of St. Louis. It is jammed with four staffers, a couple of volunteers and a dozen people newly arrived to the United States from various refugee camps in various African hellholes. Some are wearing the colorful dress of their native lands. Others, young men mostly, early adapters, already have the sneakers-baggy pants-and-stocking-cap look going on, accented with puffy jackets that make them look like Michelin men.
They are speaking English. They are speaking French. They are speaking indigenous languages -- Africa's got 1,800 of them, including whistling.
They are welcome here no matter how they are dressed and no matter what language they speak. In this one $60-a-month rented room in the basement of Compton Heights Christian Church, 2149 South Grand Boulevard, these newest St. Louisans get the help they need to begin their new lives in America.
In this one room, they can get someone to help get a drivers license. To help get a job. To help translate a mysterious document from the distant and awesome place where the gas is turned on. To help take a baby to a doctor and make the doctor understand that the baby has a fever.
In this one room, on a budget of $66,000 a year, one small and fiercely-determined 49-year-old woman and her staff of four make America happen for hundreds of people. They call her Mama Zed.
How Mama Zed came to America: In 1974, she was a student studying abroad in England. At home in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, her father was a telecommunications executive. That was the year a military junta overthrew Emperor Haile Selassie. Her family fled. Zed could not go home.
In 1978, she married a young Ghanan doctor named Zwesi Dugbatey, and together they moved to Ghana. Dr. Dugbatey became the official physician to Ghana's president, Hilla Limann, just in time to see a military coup topple the government. "You need to leave," a man told Dr. Dugbatey. "They are looking for you."
The doctor and his family fled east to Togo. They slept on the bare floors of a refugee camp. Zed remembers the mosquitoes that bit her infant daughter's face into a swollen mass, and the smell of the mosquito coils, and the acrid stench of fish frying in the market in Lome, and the buzzing of the flies.
She remembers the kindness of a stranger who offered them his apartment, how she and her husband, a sister, a cousin and a daughter and everything they owned fit into the small taxicab that took them to the apartment, a place that was spacious and clean, with a view of the sea. "Overnight, everything can change," she said.
Not always for the better. The doctor set up a clinic, caring for Ghanans in Togo. Again a man came to see him. "You need to leave," he said. "They are looking for you again."
They found asylum in the United States, and were offered a choice of settlement locations. Zed's daughter had been studying in a French school. They figured a city named after a French king would feel familiar.
St. Louis was good to Dr. Dugbatey and his family. With a Ph.D. and a master's in public health to go with his medical degree, he joined the faculty at the St. Louis University School of Public Health. Their daughter, Elle, just graduated from St. Louis University; their son, Jean Paul, attends Clayton High School.
But Zed couldn't forget the bare floors and the acrid smell of frying fish, the buzzing flies and mosquitoes. She began working with refugees, teaching them about America. With a three-year $150,000 grant, she founded the African Refugee and Immigrant Service almost five years ago. When the grant ran out, she became a full-time volunteer.
"For me it is a calling," she said. "I will do it until I can't do it any more. For some reason, I seem to attract good-hearted volunteers."
People like Rachel Eckardt, who is on her way out the door to do casework, and Anne Marie Rosche, a student at Washington University who is at the computer, and Hawa Ahmed, who is translating documents and Kathleen Heldenbrand, who manages the office. Board members like Kwado Armano, Shirley Padmore, Beatryx Epps and Easter Walker. Volunteers like Larry and Judy Kendall of Wildwood. Larry just dropped off a table, and Judy and her teaching partner at MICDS, Joyce Foster, annually get their sixth-graders and their families involved in the lives of the refugees.
Several thousand African refugees now call St. Louis home, with more arriving each month. Overnight they leave squalid camps and are dropped into a new culture, one brimming with opportunities, but one that is utterly strange. Mama Zed and her helpers are there to ease the transition.
"Sometimes," she said, "they have so many problems, it's easy to forget that they are also people. Sometimes all they need is for someone to ask how they are feeling, to care about them as individuals. But I tell myself, because I know, that if they've gone through what they've gone through, then they will make it here, too." ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Profile
Name: Zed Minale
Age: 49
Home: Richmond Heights
Family: Married to Dr. Kwesi Dugbatey; daughter, Elle, 22; son, Jean Paul, 15
Born: Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Education: University of London, England
Position: Executive director of African Immigrant and Refugee Service, which she founded in 2000.
Contact information: 2149 South Grand Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63104; (314) 577-6880; E-mail: africanrs@aol.com
mdl

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Do you know a Local Hero? To nominate someone you know as a Local Hero, please write us at Local Heroes, c/o Editorial Page, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 900 N. Tucker Blvd., St. Louis MO 63101.  You can also e-mail us at localheroes@post-dispatch.com, or post your nomination online at STLtoday.com/localheroes.  Tell us in a few words why you think this person is making a difference, and let us know how to get in touch with him or her.  Please include your name, address and a daytime phone number where we can reach you (we will not publish your personal information). 

GRAPHIC: photo
 PHOTO by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - Fatma Msumi (left), Kathleen Heldenbrand, Zed Minale, and Safina Mohamed, look at pictures from Africa when Heldenbrand lived there. 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

381 of 996 DOCUMENTS

San Jose Mercury News (California)

October 1, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 195 words

* President Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year before. That restored the number to its fiscal 1997 level, the lowest figure in a decade. Admissions are based on country-by-country allocations made each year by the State Department.
* Congress has approved legislation that would allow colleges to notify parents when students younger than 21 commit an alcohol or drug violation, a measure sparked by a string of five alcohol-related deaths on Virginia campuses last fall. The bill needs only President Clinton's signature to become law; he said he is likely to sign the measure.
* Americans opened fewer than 55,000 tax-free medical-savings accounts during the first year and a half they have been available -- not even coming close to a 750,000-account cap lawmakers put on the experimental alternative to traditional health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Albright
[981001 FR 9A]

Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News 
All Rights Reserved

382 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 16, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Ersatz Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words


To the Editor:
Your idea to offer ''emergency protection to a national group whose homeland is racked by armed civil conflict, environmental disaster or other 'extraordinary and temporary conditions' '' is seriously flawed (''Make America a Fair Safe Haven,'' editorial, June 29).
Any national from a country certified under your proposal would be eligible for admission, whether or not that individual was actually in distress. At some point, legitimate refugee claimants would be displaced by ersatz refugees, including economic migrants, thus undermining the very premise of humanitarianism and fairness on which your proposal is presumably based. It is precisely to defend the interests of genuine refugees that the Refugee Act of 1980, which your proposal would effectively supercede, provides for case-by-case adjudication.
''Safe haven'' would involve millions of people if admissions criteria were broadly construed. Imagine, if you will, offering safe haven to the victims of a flooded Yangtze River, earthquakes in Mexico, Ecuador and Italy, a volcano in Colombia, a typhoon in Ceylon, the conflicts in Lebanon, El Salvador, Northern Ireland, the Philippines, South Africa and Sri Lanka, to name but a few. After they had been afforded ''temporary'' safe haven, what would be their incentive to leave, and how would their departure be enforced? If you have the answers, you're way ahead of the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Your ''safe haven'' notion is a dangerous, ill-conceived and superfluous idea that if enacted will harm many of the people it purports to serve, not the least of whom are the American people.
 
ROGER CONNER
   Executive Director, Federation
   for American Immigration Reform
   Washington, June 30, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company

384 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

December 3, 2001 Monday  
City Edition

Sudan refugees adjust to U.S. life

BYLINE: VERONICA DAEHN, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 397 words

When Gai Laam came to the United States from Sudan in 1998, he didn't know anything about the American way of life.
  He didn't know about kitchen stoves, speed limits or that it's not OK in America for men to beat their wives.
  Now, Laam's a translator for Lincoln Public Schools. He's one of only two translators in Lincoln who speak Arabic, and he's the only one who speaks the language of the Nuer tribe, one of the two main tribes of Sudanese in Lincoln. Nobody can translate for the Dinka tribe. 
  Laam sees daily the problems the Sudanese refugees face.
  "They don't know how life is in America," he said. "We try to explain (it) to them, but it's tough."
  Laam, 24, was at the Culture Center, 333 N. 14th St., Sunday afternoon for a welcome-to-Lincoln party for Sudanese refugees. It was a time for the 500 to 1,000 Sudanese natives in Lincoln to come together and find support from the community in the form of donated clothing, toys, dishes, food and friendship.
  "The idea was to acknowledge their difficulties and say we're worried and concerned and want to help," said Mary Willis, assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
  Many natives of Sudan, the largest country in Africa, have been forced to leave their homeland because of the 20-year civil war -- the longest running civil war in the world -- that has ravaged their country and killed their families.
  Most didn't have the option of staying, Willis said.
  "These people have been living with terrorism for years," she said. "They can't go back home. Their only choice is to come to the U.S."
  And now that they're here, it's a difficult transition.
  "They have to relearn life all over," she said. "They have to learn our values and our legal system. It's very difficult for them."
  Laam agreed.
  It's frustrating for him to have to tell Sudanese parents that their children are in trouble at school. Many Sudanese refugees don't yet understand the American culture or the reasoning behind U.S. laws.
  And Laam is just the literal translator, not an interpreter of meaning. He doesn't yet have the experience to fully understand the meaning himself, he said.
  Sunday's celebration was one step toward helping the refugees start over.
  "It's a community that has a lot of need," Willis said. "We hope this will be a start."  
  Reach Veronica Daehn at 473-7120 or vdaehn@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 Lincoln Journal Star,
All Rights Reserved

385 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

May 11, 1993 Tuesday Final Edition

Canada favors men as refugees talks told

SOURCE: FROM THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: TORONTO

Most of the world's 18-million refugees are women and children, but it's mainly men who are granted asylum in safe countries like Canada, a conference on refugees has been told.
Monica Boyd, a sociologist at Florida State University, analysed Canadian Immigration Department data over a decade.
Of the people accepted by Canada as refugees between 1981 and 1991, 48 per cent were men and 27 per cent were women. The remainder were children. 
Ms Boyd said she expects the numbers would be similar in the United States and Western Europe.
That's partly because single men are more able and willing to travel to Canada and claim refugee status upon arrival. Men are also more likely to have the money and connections needed to leave their home countries.
Sometimes the men act as "scouts" seeking haven in Canada, then sending for other family members later, adds Ms Boyd.
Refugees must prove they face persecution at home because of their race, religion, nationality and political opinions.
Of those who make it to Canada and claim asylum, women are more likely to be accepted as refugees, said Ms Boyd. Sixty-four per cent of female refugee claimants in 1992 were accepted, compared to 58 per cent of men.
About 33,000 of the 52,000 refugees Canada will accept this year travel on their own to Canada, show up at the border and claim asylum.
Canadian immigration officials will also choose about 19,000 refugees from camps abroad this year. Most of those refugees are also men, said Ms Boyd, although she didn't have exact statistics.
That's because immigration officers abroad decide how well refugees will be able to settle in Canada, considering such things as education, work experience and "personal suitability."
Female refugees, most of whom are from Africa, the Middle East and Asia, are less likely to have education or work experience. Officials might decide a single mother with five children from Africa who had never worked outside the home would not be a good candidate for relocation in Canada, Ms Boyd said in an interview.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1993 Metroland Media Group Ltd

389 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

February 9, 2010 Tuesday

Refugee groups grow roots with folk grants

BYLINE: By Julia Lyon The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words

West Valley City  When you're a refugee from Africa, putting on a traditional dance performance can require buying costumes and instruments from thousands of miles away. The drums come from Rwanda , the goatskin costumes from Kenya.
This year, the bill could be paid, in part, with help from the state of Utah.
Some of the newest recipients of state folk arts grants are two African dance and music groups that hope to strengthen their community and pass down tradition through the singing and dancing that reminds them of home. Folk grant recipients don't get much money from the state -- a few hundred or a couple thousand dollars, depending on the group -- but that's enough to make an enormous difference for people who may be living on Utah's economic margins. 
Many of the young dancers in The Best of Africa Cultural Group have parents who don't own cars, don't have driver's licenses or work at night, so it's up to the organizers to pick the children up. The grant will help pay for gas for a group that hopes to keep kids away from gangs and drugs. If they had more money, they'd like to buy a van.
"These kids, when they get here in America they start changing their behavior," said Valentine Mukundente, who co-founded the group. "I want them to remember where they came from."
Because many refugee children come to America when they are very young, they don't always have a chance to learn about their native traditions before they arrive.
On Monday evening, 10 girls twirled their hands, rolled their hips and jumped lightly to the pounding music at the Utah Cultural Center in West Valley City. They looked completely at ease. On Thursday, they will perform at a school in Draper for students learning about Africa.
Many of the dancers' parents, who are refugees from Burundi and Rwanda, are still learning about America. Mukundente wants to find a space to offer workshops for the newcomers, to teach them about everything from AIDS to domestic violence. Even something as basic as a sandwich might be a new concept.
A few miles away, members of the small Didinga community, which has only a few dozen people in Utah, recalled how tribal members came together from all over the country to perform last summer in Boulder, Colo. Even in Sudan, the group continues to scatter as people leave their drought-plagued villages looking for food.
Now in America, the Didinga work whatever jobs they can, often giving up school in order to pay the rent. Playing music reminds them of who they were before years of war transformed them into refugees.
"It's from a thousand years ago," said Regina Mark. "We feel like we're at home."
And their goal is not just cultural. In addition to performing, the Didinga hope to raise money to send to the people they left behind in Africa.
"They keep on calling us all the time asking for money," said Aurelio Irio, who created a Web site to educate the public about the Didingas' suffering. Friends and family call from Africa describing starvation and death.
"One dollar can make a difference," he said.
jlyon@sltrib.com Want to help or find out more?
To contact The Best of Africa Cultural Group, call (801) 706-1227. To contact the Didinga Community Association, call 801-738-9369 or go to http://mydidinga.org .

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sudanese refugees recently received state money to support DiDinga music and dance. They were able to purchase materials for their costumes and instruments with the money.
Aurelio Irio, a Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the DiDinga music and dance group he is involved in. They were able to purchase materials for costumes and instruments with the money. Here Auereilio Irio, left, gets together with his daughter Yvonne Auerelio, 1, and friends Grace Lokwany, Regina Mark, and Kamilo Philip to sing and dance in a South Salt Lake Apartment.
Aurelio Irio, a Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the DiDinga music and dance group he is involved in. They were able to purchase materials for costumes and instruments with the money. Here Auereilio Irio, left, gets together with his daughter Yvonne Auerelio, 1, and friends Grace Lokwany, Regina Mark, and Kamilo Philip to sing and dance in a South Salt Lake Apartment.
Aurelio Irio, a Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the DiDinga music and dance group he is involved in. They were able to purchase materials for costumes and instruments with the money.
A Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the DiDinga music and dance group They were able to purchase materials for costumes and instruments with the money. Kamilo Philip plays a handmade lamellophone or "thumb piano" , one of the insturments the dance group uses.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

394 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

January 29, 2017 Sunday  
METRO EDITION

DATA DROP

BYLINE: ANDY MANNIX; C.J. SINNER; STAFF WRITERS, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 623 words


HIGHLIGHT: Trump's immigration orders will be felt in Minnesota

It was a busy first week on the job for Donald Trump.
On Wednesday, the freshly inaugurated president took the first steps on his "extreme vetting" promises to gridlock immigration into the United States and signed an executive order to construct a border wall with Mexico. He's also poised to punish sanctuary cities like Minneapolis and St. Paul that have promised to buck federal laws in order to protect immigrant communities. That could potentially halt millions of dollars in federal funding to the two cities.
On Friday, Trump signed an order to suspend admission of refugees for 120 days, including those wishing to find asylum in Minnesota, and increase vetting of potential refugees from the predominantly Muslim, war-battered nations of Somalia, Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya and Yemen. 
It's yet to be seen how these tough-on-immigration policies will play out nationally, but they're almost certain to have dramatic implications for Minnesota's increasingly diverse population.
Over the past 15 years, Minnesota has seen more than 40,000 people move here as refugees, meaning the state is offering humanitarian protection to people fleeing unsafe areas of the world, according to U.S. Refugee Admissions Program data.
A majority - more than 16,000 - came from Somalia, contributing to Minnesota becoming home to the largest population of immigrants from the Eastern African country in North America. Last year, about 3,000 refugees moved to Minnesota, nearly half of whom came from Somalia.
Beyond refugees, it's much harder to count how many people come directly from other countries to Minnesota through other immigration channels. Many people end up here after first arriving in other parts of the U.S.
But we can measure what share of Minnesota's population is made up of people who were born in foreign countries and now reside here. As of 2015, about 8 percent of the state's 5.4 million residents were born in foreign countries, according to the U.S. Census American Community Survey data.
Among the foreign-born residents counted in 2015, more than 67,000 came from Mexico. Nearly 54,000 were born in Eastern African nations, such as Somalia, according to the survey data.
In the meantime, cities like Minneapolis and St. Paul are bracing for how Trump could cut their budgets. The president's order will strip federal grant funding from going to the estimated 300-plus sanctuary cities in the United States.
Federal dollars only account for about 2 to 3 percent of the Minneapolis and St. Paul budgets - $27.7 million and $14.6 million, respectively, according to a Star Tribune story published last week by Adam Belz and Jessie Van Berkel.
"It'll be a problem to solve in the budget, and I don't look forward to having to do that, but a bigger problem is when we jeopardize and undermine the foundations of our democracy," Minneapolis Mayor Betsy Hodges said.
Andy Mannix  612-673-4036 andy.mannix@startribune.com
CJ Sinner  612-673-4387 cj.sinner@startribune.com
TOP COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN FOR REFUGEES
The top four countries of origin for Minnesota refugees 2002-2016.
2016
Somalia: 1,405
Myanmar: 658
Ethiopia: 277
Laos: 0
(See the page PDF or microfilm for the complete chart.)
Source: Refugee Processing Center
MINNESOTA' S GROWING FOREIGN-BORN POPULATION
The number of foreign-born residents in Minnesota has grown steadily, rising from 2 percent of the population in 1980 to 8 percent in 2015.
2015: 457,185
(See the page PDF or microfilm for the complete chart.)
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
ORIGIN OF FOREIGN-BORN MINNESOTANS
Countries from which the Trump administration would limit further immigration.
Mexico 67,407
Somalia 25,027
Sudan 2,281
Iran 1,705
Iraq 1,554
Syria 450
Yemen 136
Source:American Community Survey MARK BOSWELL  Star Tribune

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Star Tribune
All Rights Reserved

396 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 15, 1985, Thursday, Final Edition

Refugee Agency Faces Curb;
D.C. Agency Is Prohibited From Aiding Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By Laurel E. Miller, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: District Weekly; DC1

LENGTH: 888 words

The District's Office of Refugee Resettlement spends more than$2 million a year in federal funds to help about 500 refugees, mostly from Indochina and Ethiopia, find jobs, housing and health services.
The office is prohibited, however, from helping the thousands of illegal immigrants who are streaming into the city each year from war-torn countries in Central America, because the U.S. government does not consider them refugees.
"My office would not exist if it weren't for federal funds," said Wallace W. Lumpkin, director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement. "I can have all the sympathy as an individual, but I cannot use my funds here to help undocumented refugees." 
Lumpkin added: "We assist anyone who the federal government designates as a refugee, or who has refugee status. If they come from El Salvador, chances are they don't have that [refugee status] at all."
The federal government's definition of a refugee is one who flees his or her homeland out of fear of persecution because of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.
The government has set quotas on the number of refugees who may enter the U.S. legally each year: about 50,000 from Indochina, 19,000 from Eastern European countries and 3,500 from Africa, according to Lumpkin.
The number of legal refugees entering the United States has been dropping in recent years and that decline is reflected in the decreasing number of new arrivals served by the District's refugee office.
Meanwhile, the number of illegal "refugees" in the city, mostly from El Salvador, has been increasing and is estimated to range from 50,000 to 80,000 people, according to federal and local agencies.
"Basically, there is nobody serving [the illegal refugees] and they are frightened to use what services there are," said the Rev. Harold Bradley, head of Georgetown University's Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee Assistance.
"The refugees that ORR is serving are the refugees that it is to the political advantage of the United States to serve," he said. "We're taking care of those refugees for foreign policy reasons, and that's why you have the State Department involved in resettling those people."
About 95 percent of the legal refugees who come to the District seek assistance from the refugee office, Lumpkin said. They are brought here from refugee camps by volunteer agencies under contract with the State Department. Most speak no English and many are illiterate in their own languages, he said.
These refugees immediately are eligible to receive welfare payments for up to 18 months, plus food stamps, Medicaid and job training.
Many of these refugees are helped by the D.C. Refugee Service Center, a project of the Associated Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Washington. At the center, which is fully funded by the city, the refugees receive such help as job placement and employment counseling, English classes, and family and personal counseling.
Lumpkin and his two-member staff, who are part of the city's Department of Human Services, give most of the office's $2 million budget to private agencies such as the Refugee Service Center, which actually provide the services to the refugees.
Undocumented aliens are ineligible for any services that receive federal funding.
The Andromeda Hispano Mental Health Center, for example, receives a $30,000 annual grant from the refugee office to run a counseling program for Cuban refugees. None of that money goes to serve the Central Americans who make up about 75 percent of the center's clientele, said Dr. Ricardo Galbis, Andromeda's executive director.
"They [the illegal immigrants] are paranoid to begin with," said Galbis. "They feel unsure of themselves. They have no rights: no medical rights, no legal rights. [But] they work hard, they're very hard-working people.
"There is a need for more focus on the health needs of the Hispanic population. They're increasing geometrically. Whether they're legal or not, they're living here."
Kathy Schrader, director of the Refugee Service Center, said, "It's frustrating for us because we are caught in the middle and sometimes we have a job we can't fill but there's nothing we can do" because the center cannot offer the job to an illegal refugee. The center serves about 2,000 legal refugees a year, Schrader said.
She said that the number of new cases her center handles each year has dropped to about 360, almost half the number of persons the center helped in 1981, its first year of operation.
When illegal immigrants visit the center they are referred to one of the several other private social service agencies that help Hispanics.
"The numbers [of illegals] really are overwhelming the ability of the agencies to provide," said Grant Prillaman, director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center, which helps the illegal immigrants get jobs and learn English.
Other private agencies that receive funds from Lumpkin's office include the Ethiopian Community Center and the Indochinese Community Center.
"We offer a variety of services all geared toward one thing, to make that refugee self-sufficient as quickly as possible," Lumpkin said. "It's all geared to moving the refugees toward the way Americans live and mainstreaming them into society."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The Washington Post

397 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 26, 1990, Monday, Final Edition

Horror in Liberia;
African Hospitality, American Indifference

BYLINE: Lionel Rosenblatt

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 952 words

As a veteran observer of refugees in Southeast Asia, I was prepared to see more suffering when I went to West Africa to assess conditions for Liberian refugees. Like almost all refugees, the Liberians brought little with them except tales of horror -- the kind of atrocities I had not encountered since listening to accounts of Cambodian refugees who fled the murderous Khmer Rouge regime more than a decade ago.
Sometimes the terror in Liberia is random: villages burned, inhabitants massacred. Sometimes the terror is dreadfully focused, as in the instance of a young woman who told us how her brother had pleaded for her life, saying to take his instead; his captors obliged, killed him before her eyes and then let her go on to a lifetime of nightmares. 
I found two things astonishing about the Liberian situation and its refugees -- the hospitality of neighboring countries and the apparent willingness of the United States and the international community to tolerate continued violence in Liberia, which indiscriminately generates more dead, more wounded and more displaced.
The problem is large and growing -- more than half a million Liberians have fled to the neighboring countries of Sierra Leone, Guinea and the Ivory Coast. Counting those displaced inside Liberia, half of the country is homeless, which may be the current world record for displacement.
Yet there are no refugee camps. Hospitality for those who manage to flee across the border is given by villagers in neighboring countries. To see this personal generosity is deeply moving -- an extraordinary willingness of those who have little to share with those who bring nothing. In effect, the villagers were the sole international donors to Liberian refugees until the slow-moving relief machinery began to respond months after the first refugees fled.
 The advantages of living in a village environment instead of confinement in a refugee camp are great. Village life permits dignity and freedom of movement, not possible in the confinement of a camp and at a much lower cost. The refugees may be poorer than those in Southeast Asia, but their daily existence is immeasurably better. It is now past time for the international community to reimburse the front-line village hosts. Yet the rice and other food now finally being distributed in these villages goes to refugees only.
An international appeal for aid to some 200,000 villagers in Guinea to replenish their food supplies has received only scant international support. One hopes that the United States will lead the way in generating the overdue response to this appeal.
If it is time to recompense the villagers of the neighboring countries. It is also time to encourage an end to the fighting in Liberia. Even before the Gulf crisis the United States apparently decided to sit on the sidelines rather than seek a settlement in the Liberian civil war.
There is bitterness among the Liberian refugees toward all factions, but there especially is grief that the United States -- long a special patron of Liberia's since freed slaves returned there from America -- has failed to play a strong role to end hostilities. Officials in Guinea and the Ivory Coast, as well as U.S. diplomats in the two countries, believe that active U.S. intervention months ago could have saved hundreds, perhaps thousands of lives.
It is now time to put other solutions in place. Though the cease-fire engineered by Assistant Secretary of State Herman Cohen in late September lasted only days, this peacemaking attempt does show the potential for constructive U.S. involvement.
What is needed from the United States is a presidential push for a settlement in Liberia, starting with a new cease-fire. Perhaps a U.N. peacekeeping component could be added. U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar should appoint a high level representative immediately. But with the African group at the United Nations split, the secretary general can only move ahead with support from major powers like the United States.
Where are the voices in and out of government for a more responsive approach to Liberia? Those in Congress who follow Africa -- including the Black Caucus -- have been generally passive. Meanwhile, the media continue to allow the Gulf to dominate their radar screens.
While pressing for a more effective U.S. approach to the Liberian civil war, we should encourage recent, belated U.S. actions to get food to Liberia. Starvation is looming. As helpless as the Liberian refugees are, they never forget to remind a visitor of the need to get food to their brethren back home and the imperative to stop the fighting. Obstacles to increased food delivery need to be addressed: maritime carriers must be insured, the interdiction of food must be ended and the facilitation of distribution on the ground improved. These problems are soluble and the world should be doing more than watching Liberia starve.
One last problem: Why is it so difficult for those Liberians with relatives and other close ties to the United States to get non-immigrant visas? Thousands of Liberians have been granted the right to remain indefinitely in the United States until conditions improve at home. This should be extended to those close family members who arrived after July, and the State Department should instruct our embassies to interpret the visa law flexibly and humanely.
It is unconscionable that the United States and the international community are not acting more effectively on Liberia across-the-board -- inside the country, along its borders and at ours.
The writer, executive director of Refugees International, recently visited Liberian refugees in Guinea and the Ivory Coast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AFP

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1990 The Washington Post

398 of 996 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

June 4, 2015 Thursday

Victor Davis Hanson: The rush of the world's poor

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 574 words

TUSCANY, Italy -- Northern and central Italy are not on the southern Mediterranean. But somehow thousands of refugees from Africa, Asia and the Middle East are everywhere here -- as is true of much of the European Union. Some sleep on park benches. Many peddle knockoff electronic goods and counterfeit watches. Angry Italians shoo away refugee beggars from tour groups. 
The Greek islands near the coast of Turkey are likewise flooded this summer with dispossessed refugees from countries such as Afghanistan and Syria. Apparently a bankrupt Greek government lacks the resources to patrol its vast coastline. Some beleaguered Greeks assume that thousands of boat people and homeless refugees will eventually leave their makeshift camps and head northward to the wealthier homelands of Greece's Northern European creditors.
A similar rush has overwhelmed America's southern border. In the last two years, tens of thousands of Central American and Mexican citizens have sensed that the Obama administration has suspended border enforcement. Illegal entry into the United States won't result in punishment but instead in an array of social services unimaginable in much of Latin America.
So, what explains this constant rush of the world's poor families into the West? And why aren't China, Russia, Iran and Cuba, for example, flooded with illegal entrants?
The human exodus to Western countries is not always explained by a lack of natural wealth elsewhere. Iraq and Venezuela, for example, are awash in oil. Mexico has lots of oil, minerals and fertile soil.
Wars may have driven scores of Afghanis, North Africans and Syrians from their homelands to the West, but most of Latin America is at relative peace.
The allure of the West is certainly not due to Europeans and Americans constantly brainwashing the world about their supposedly superior culture. Just the opposite is true. American media and universities constantly harangue about the race, class and gender shortcomings of Western civilization. President Obama has retold countless Western historical sins and offered apologies for them while abroad.
Nor are Western economies currently booming and thus short of labor. The European Union faces massive debt. America never quite recovered from the Great Recession of 2008-2009 and is currently experiencing negative economic growth. Many immigrants arrive without expectation of joining the labor force.
Nor do millions of refugees hear nice things about the West from their own governments.
State media throughout Latin America routinely trash Yanqui neo-imperialism and arrogance. The Middle East is one big anti-American megaphone that constantly ridicules Western decadence as the antithesis of Islamic decorum.
So why, then, do millions risk their lives to get into America, Europe and other Western nations by hook or by crook?
The Western poor enjoy a level of state support and access to technology, health care and security that would make them relatively rich in the Third World. Even a poor foreign-born peddler in Florence, Italy, has access to clean water and is safe in a way unknown to most residents of Syria or Afghanistan.
Add up the right to free expression, human rights, religious tolerance, constitutional government, an independent judiciary, separation of church and state, free-market economics and the protection of private property -- and everyday life becomes simply far better.
Victor Davis Hanson is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

399 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Intervention Has a Price

BYLINE: By David Rieff;   David Rieff, the author of "Slaughterhouse: Bosnia and the Failure of the West," returned from Central Africa last week.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

From the civil wars in Somalia and Bosnia to the current crisis in Zaire, it has been the international aid agencies who have most strongly and consistently called for military intervention in humanitarian disasters. Only through a combination of military muscle and logistical support, they insist, can we hope to rescue starving people like the more than one million Rwandan Hutu refugees now cut off from aid in eastern Zaire.
In the short term, this argument usually makes practical sense. Lives are saved when soldiers protect relief workers. The problem is that in their increasing zeal to advocate a military response, the humanitarian advocates have in effect become the last interventionists of the post-cold war world, a position fraught with political and moral risks that Westerners ignore at our own peril. 
 To intervene out of humanitarian concern without any idea of what comes next often does as much to worsen the situation in the long run as it does to alleviate things in the short term.
In Somalia, where the United States became involved to a large extent because of pressure from groups like CARE, we learned how quickly humanitarian interventions can go awry. In Bosnia, the relief effort became a fig leaf behind which the international community could rationalize its refusal to take any concrete action that might have defused the crisis early on.
Sending international troops to Zaire without considering "comprehensive answers for the tensions that exist in the region" will likely prove to be no solution at all, said Thabo Mbeki, the Deputy President of South Africa. One does not need to look far to see that Mr. Mbeki's reservations are well founded.
It was partly because of the efforts of advocacy groups like Refugees International that the United States committed itself in eastern Zaire in 1994 after the Rwandan civil war. Yet that humanitarian effort, undertaken with such moral certainty, was never part of a larger commitment to helping Rwanda rebuild its political structure after the airlifts stopped. This made the current refugee crisis in Zaire inevitable.
Humanitarian activists, along with America's allies, apparently persuaded a hesitant United States to take a leading role in a new multinational military force in eastern Zaire. The White House spokesman, Michael McCurry, said yesterday that several thousand United States troops would soon be deployed, approximately 1,000 of which would be inside Zaire for up to four months, and American objections to the Canadian-led intervention had faded.
To hear many of the humanitarians tell it, there are either no risks to such an action, or the moral imperative for it is so great that to refuse is unthinkable. In this respect, the oratory of post-cold war humanitarianism is eerily reminiscent of that of the cold warriors who believed that there was no part of the world in which Communism did not have to be confronted.
Any intervention in the Great Lakes region of Africa will be ad hoc, organized far too quickly to take into account what will happen if the mission goes wrong and if the force has to fight, as in Somalia. More dangerous is the potential political effect of intervention on the rest of the region.
Humanitarian agencies insist that the force will just save lives, but what if it destabilizes other parts of the area? For example, little consideration has been given to how the insertion of this foreign army will affect the ongoing civil war in Burundi and Zaire's survival as a unified state.
It is this understanding, not hard-heartedness, that lay behind the reservations of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. John Shalikashvili, and senior members of the Clinton Administration about intervening in Zaire. Yet as images of starving Africans were broadcast on CNN, international pressure made American involvement virtually inevitable.
Americans should not let the moral fervor of interventionism blind them to the implications of military action. If the United States goes in, it should be with the understanding that such humanitarian moves are rarely if ever quick, clean or easy.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

409 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

February 13, 2017 Monday  
First Edition

Lawyers call for Safe Third Country pact change; 
Government under pressure to repeal it since Trump's executive order

BYLINE: Nicole Thompson The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA / WORLD; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 512 words

Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in the United States hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that makes it nearly impossible. 
The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives in the other country.
The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since U.S. President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far refused.
Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake. He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the past week - some of whom crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could make their refugee claims once already in the country.
It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.
Clarke said it's putting people at risk.
"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the wind chill factors, it's highly risky."
He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada later on.
He said the agreement should be either "repealed, amended or suspended."
"The refugees who are coming into Canada do not feel safe in the United States," he said.
The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said the government wouldn't suspend the agreement.
"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the American asylum system," said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.
Caron said the agreement is focused on how to handle people who show up at either land border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by Trump's edict. Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of any executive orders, she added.
Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster University, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the States.
"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instills an enormous amount of fear in people. An enormous amount of insecurity," he said.
Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's received calls from people originally from Mexico, Central America, South America and Africa - not just claimants from Muslim-majority countries.
"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they will get a fair hearing. And there has been a noticeable increase in these types of calls since the executive orders took place," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

412 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Mercury News (California)

September 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump administration sets refugee admissions at historic low

BYLINE: Tatiana Sanchez

LENGTH: 704 words


HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration set a limit of 45,000 for refugee arrivals in 2018.

Citing safety and security concerns, the Trump administration said Wednesday that it will cap refugee admissions at 45,000 in the 2018 fiscal year, a historic low that refugee advocates say will exclude many of the worlds vulnerable populations.
Under the proposal to Congress, an estimated 19,000 refugees would be admitted from Africa; 17,000 from east South Asia; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia and 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean.
        Venezuela lashes out over travel ban          
        Supreme Court postpones hearing on Trumps travel ban         
        Trump replaces travel ban with new restrictions      While stating the importance of the United States leadership role in humanitarian protection, the administration said during a news briefing that an integral part of this mission is to ensure that refugee resettlement opportunities only go to those who are eligible for such protection and who are not known to present a risk to the safety and security of our country.
The limit is the lowest since 1980, the year legislation was implemented giving the president authority to determine a cap on refugees, according to the New York Times. The limit has never slipped lower than 67,000  the number that Ronald Reagan set in 1986  the Times said. In previous years, the U.S. had admitted an estimated 70,000 refugees annually. Former President Barack Obama had placed a 110,000 limit on refugees last year, in part to take in a growing number of Syrian refugees displaced around the world.
The announcement comes days after the Trump administration revealed new restrictions on visitors from eight countries  an expansion of the pre-existing travel ban that has spurred fierce legal debates over security, immigration and discrimination.
The new refugee ceiling is tragic and misguided, according to Mindy Berkowitz, executive director of Jewish Family Services of Silicon Valley in Los Gatos, one of just a few refugee resettlement agencies in Santa Clara County.
Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area and beyond.
The people that were looking to limit are the people who are escaping terrorism, she said. They want to live in peace and freedom. When they come here, they are so enthusiastic and ready to contribute.
Berkowitz said the nonprofit is paid per refugee arrival.
If were looking at these historically low levels, we stand to lose from our budgets hundreds of thousands of dollars. It mostly impacts us in terms of the staff that we hire.
Santa Clara County resettled 134 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, according to data compiled by the states Department of Social Services. Berkowitz, however, said state estimates are inaccurate. Jewish Family Services alone resettled 105 refugees between October 2016 and September, she said.
Meanwhile, Alameda County resettled 127 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, compared with 28 in Contra Costa County, state data shows.
We have recognized for many years that offering safe haven to the neediest among us helps advance American interests abroad, and it is devastating to see the White House ignoring this fact, said Karen Ferguson, executive director of the International Rescue Committee of Northern California in a statement. Locally, the IRC sees refugees being welcomed into Northern California and then giving back to their communities and to the economy, and are committed to continuing that work.
In a joint statement with U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Michigan), Rep. Zoe Lofgren called the cap an affront to the United States legacy as a protector of oppressed people.
Todays decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time since World War II, said Lofgren, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. It is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values that make America great.
Federal law requires a cabinet official to consult with Congress before a ceiling is set. But government officials said the administrations briefing to Congress on the cap came just days before the fiscal year starts on Oct 1.
The Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

414 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

November 17, 2015 Tuesday

The Vile Politics of the Syrian Refugee Crisis [UPDATED]

BYLINE: ERNESTO LONDOO

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 462 words


HIGHLIGHT: As hundreds of thousands flee Syria, a growing number of American politicians are responding with unspeakable cruelty. 

Since 1975, the United States has resettled more than three million refugees. They have contributed to the economy and culture of all 50 states. As hundreds of thousands of Syrians have fled their war-ravaged homeland, a growing number of American politicians - including more than half of the nation's governors - are responding with unspeakable cruelty. 
Here's a sample of reactions:
Asked whether he would allow orphaned refugees, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said: "I don't think orphans under five are being, you know, should be admitted into the United States at this point."
 Donald Trump, a leading Republican presidential candidate and the nation's immigrant basher in chief, predictably joined the keep-em-out camp.
Refugees from Syria are now pouring into our great country. Who knows who they are - some could be ISIS. Is our president insane?
- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)17 Nov 15
 Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas wrote a letter to President Obama saying Texas would not be welcoming to any new Syrian refugees. He warned that "opening our door to them irresponsibly exposes our fellow Americans to unspeakable peril."
My letter to @POTUS: Texas WILL NOT accept any Syrian refugees in the wake of the Paris attacks. https://t.co/GOALpfBD3X
- Gov. Greg Abbott (@GovAbbott)16 Nov 15
 Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, which is home to one of the nation's largest communities of Muslims, wrote a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Jeh Johnson, the Secretary of Homeland Security, urging a "full review" of the screening process for refugees.
Here is the letter that I sent to Secretary John Kerry and Secretary Jeh Johnson: https://t.co/IcW1OJxrlj https://t.co/kxJYnrXpwh
- Governor Rick Snyder (@onetoughnerd)16 Nov 15
Even though governors have no control over refugee admission policy, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana signed an executive order seeking to keep Syrian refugees out of his state.
My letter to @POTUS: In light of Paris terrorist attacks, time to pause process of refugees coming to the US https://t.co/v2K7wuigX0
- Gov. Bobby Jindal (@BobbyJindal)14 Nov 15
It is heartening that some governors, including Jay Inslee of Washington, took the opposite tack, saying their states would continue to welcome people fleeing war.
WA continues to welcome those seeking refuge from persecution, no matter where they come from or their religion https://t.co/kT7dlJ4WJZ 3/3
- Governor Jay Inslee (@GovInslee)16 Nov 15
 Update: Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York addressed the refugee crisis during an appearance at Harvard on Tuesday. "We have to protect Americans and we cannot lose our soul as America in the process," he said. "The day America says, 'Close the gates, build the wall,' then I say take down the Statue of Liberty, because you've gone to a different place."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

415 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Denver Post

September 24, 2015 Thursday  
THU REGIONAL Edition

What it means to be a refugee

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 594 words

I recently saw a sign on a door that said, "Refugees welcome." It was last week when I was in Bosnia a country in which an estimated 100,000 people were killed, and from which several hundred thousand became refugees themselves, during the brutal Balkan wars in the first half of the 1990s.
Then I saw a huge poster along a highway that said, "Refugee Humanitarian Concert." This was the next day driving into Croatia, parts of which were bombarded with bullets and artillery during those recent years of conflict, leaving 20,000 Croatian citizens dead, many murdered in a mad maelstrom of ethnic cleansing. 
Bosnia and Croatia are two of a half dozen nations whose wounds from that round of religious and ethnic warfare still haven't wholly healed. Yet today, they are in the middle of another mess, with Croatia the newest choke point in the flight of desperate people from the wide arc of warfare in the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
The people of these two nations understand what it means to be a refugee. What it means to escape with your children, your spouse, your parents, the clothes on your back and nothing more. They know what it means to run from hate and hunger and enemies whose only grudge against you is the ethnicity in your DNA, or the religion to which you were born. These are nations with a painfully recent firsthand perspective on what it means to escape with your life if you are lucky. And now, they have a firsthand view of other humans in the same frightening flight.
I don't know what I would do if I were a leader in one of the many European nations like these, besieged by citizens from another world, suddenly surging like a raging river into mine. I'm glad to see the small signs I've seen that there is at least some level of human compassion that transcends the practical issues of how to actually handle this flood of people who have no home, no food, no job, not even the basic language skills to survive in my society. Would I make it my country's policy to welcome all who cross my borders? Like I said, I don't know.
But what I do know is, my own good fortune of birth in the United States of America wasn't thanks my superior intelligence or driving ambition or anything else. It was thanks to my grandparents, all four of them, who courageously came to America a hundred years ago in the boiling bellies of big boats because they were fleeing from religious pogroms in Russia and Poland. They were refugees.
And I'm far from the only American like that. With everyone from Irish Americans to Vietnamese Americans to Somali Americans to Hispanic Americans to African Americans, chances are that your life in America has its roots in refugees. In fact, today in our nation, there are citizens who fled from almost every corner of the Earth because they would starve, or be oppressed, or enslaved, or killed if they chose to stay. Even descendants of the Pilgrims are descendants of refugees.
Despite seemingly impossible odds, our ancestors didn't turn back. And thanks to the compassion of others who came before them, they found their footing and acquired some skills and learned the language and eventually became thoroughly American.
Today's refugees in Europe, coming in such a torrent, are sure to change the very face of the societies in which they end up. It's not what anyone would choose. But that was also said about your ancestors, and mine. In the end, our society changed for the better. We are the proof.
Greg Dobbs of Evergreen was a correspondent for ABC News for 23 years, then for HDNet television's "World Report."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
All Rights Reserved

417 of 996 DOCUMENTS


TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

May 24, 2007 Thursday  
ALL EDITIONS

Saving the children; 
Education program gives Africans entree to America

BYLINE: M. Elizabeth Roman, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER 

It was last winter when Abdirahman Ahmed, 17, and his family arrived in Massachusetts after a four-night, three-day trip from a refugee camp in Kenya.
Abdirahman has eight siblings; his brother, Ayanle Ahmed, 5, is the youngest. At Catholic Charities in Worcester earlier this month, Ayanle drew a picture of a house with smoke coming from the chimney on large piece of paper as his brother described his first day in America.
The picture prompted thoughts of snow, which Abdirahman had never seen before arriving here. "What is this?" Abdirahman said, speaking in crisp English, about his first encounter with snow and the hard transition from the African desert to New England. "I didn't leave the house for three months." 
The Somali native had waited 10 years with his family in a refugee camp in Kenya, where education was a luxury, food was scarce and violence an everyday reality.
Listening to him speak, it was hard to tell that the young man didn't know a single word of English seven months ago when he arrived in America. Without any previous formal education, the Accelerated Learning Laboratory school student found an educational lifeline through the Worcester-based African Community Education Program.
"There was no school. And the children would fight against you," Abdirahman said of his days in the Kenyan refugee camp. "They think the fighting is fun. It was dangerous."
Kaska Yawo, director of the African Community Education Program and a Liberian refugee, came to the United States in 1998. The Worcester resident said his memories of the struggles of children in the camps inspired him to start the program, which was incorporated as a Massachusetts nonprofit in February. Unofficially, about a half-dozen volunteers have been working with students under the program banner for about two years. Donations pay all expenses.
Mr. Yawo helps relocate refugees for Catholic Charities during the day. Like all the tutors for the African Community Education Program, he volunteers his time to organize activities and instruction for about 45 children at the six-hour Saturday program.
"The children are fortunate to come to this country," Mr. Yawo said. "But because of their ages and the procedure for school, if you are 15 years old, (officials) place the children in 10th grade. But most kids never went to school before they came here."
Abdirahman said he spent his first few months in school in silence.
"I did not know how to read or write. I just sit in class alone. I did not talk to others. I could not communicate. It was difficult," he said.
"I am very happy I found (the ACE program)," said Abdirahman. "They helped me with my homework and projects."
Mr. Yawo said he has a 120-student waiting list and estimates the need will grow.
"I know the refugees are still coming," Mr. Yawo said. "From Liberia, Sudan ... the children keep coming."
According to the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, each year the president consults with Congress to determine the number of refugees from about 60 countries who will be resettled in the United States. The prospective immigrants then begin a complex screening process that involves non-governmental organizations, government agencies, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the U.S. Embassy.
Refugees and people seeking asylum already in the United States can also file for family reunification to facilitate the process for their kin.
All applicants must be interviewed by officers of the Department of Homeland Security and undergo extensive health and security screenings before being approved for resettlement in the United States, according to officials.
Mr. Yawo said it is difficult to leave one's country and start over again. But the program provides a bridge between the children's former lives and the future.
Morning lessons in math are followed by an afternoon session of one-on-one homework help each Saturday. The program is housed at Chandler Magnet School. Weekly theatee, dance and sports activities are included.
Cultural and emotional orientation is also key to the program.
"They come from trauma because of what they saw during the crisis. Some are disturbed," Mr. Yawo said. "But we are working with them. These children can succeed and go to college. Some have already passed the MCAS."
Program volunteers are also sensitive to the various
religious customs of the African students. Somalia refugees are generally Muslim; other refugees may be Christian.
"We are very sensitive to approach issues, so that we know what not to bring, not what not to say," he said.
AbuAsal AbuAsal, is a trained veterinarian from Darfur, Sudan, who came to the United States last year. He now helps African students learn English and math in the ACE program and in the public schools.
"We all suffer as Africans," Mr. AbuAsal said. "But if we had been educated, the violence and the war would never have happened. Education is power."
He said education allows people to focus on creative aspects of life.
"Africans have always been ruled by others. When you are educated, you are capable of ruling yourself," he said.
Organizers hope to establish a youth center that will be open seven days a week after school. A computer lab and a library are also on their wish list.
One day, Abdirahman said, he would like to become a doctor to help the people from his country.
"I would go back to my country when or if there is peace," he said.
Contact M. Elizabeth Roman by e-mail at eroman@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART
(1) Tutor and organizer Olga Valdman of the African Community Education Program, center, works with four members of the Ahmed family, twins Adnar, left, and Hali, 13, and brothers Abdirahman, 17, and Yasin, 15, right. (2) Tutor and organizer Olga Valdman of the African Community Education Program, left, works with the Ahmed brothers Abdirahman, 17, center, and Yasin, 15, right. (CHART) Arriving in Mass.
(PHOTOS) T&G Staff/JIM COLLINS (CHART) T&G Staff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

418 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 13, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

PRESBYTERIANS END INDIANAPOLIS CONVENTION

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, June 12

The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) ended its 197th General Assembly here today after reaffirming its support for abortion rights, efforts to harbor Latin Americans as refugees and divestment in South Africa.
The generally liberal agenda was passed in the face of a growing conservative tide within the church.
Marj Carpenter, a spokesman for the church, said that most of the delegates left the convention reassured about the direction of their church. ''Some came in worried because of the tone of the country,'' she said, expressing concern about a perceived national conservative trend. 
The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) was formed in 1983 by the merger of Northern and Southern wings of the church, healing a split that dated to the Civil War. The church has 3.1 million members and is the sixth largest Protestant denomination in the nation.
The most hotly debated item among the 676 delegates who gathered here at the Indiana Convention Center was a series of 21 challenges to the church's support for abortion rights. One group, Presbyterians Pro-Life, mounted a vigorous lobbying effort, but their motions were defeated in a voice vote Tuesday night.
The Rev. Ben Sheldon of Havertown Pa., president of the anti-abortion group, claimed a partial victory because the convention made ''a clear statement'' that abortion ''should not be used as a means of birth control.''
However, the Rev. Douglas Oldenberg of Charlotte, N.C., head of the committee that rejected the challenges to the church's position, said the birth control statement was implicit in church documents on the subject dating to 1970.
On the issue of sanctuary for Latin Americans who say they are political refugees, the convention approved a $100,000 contribution toward the defense fund for 16 church workers arrested for harboring illegal aliens in the Southwest.
The convention also voted to withdraw its investments in companies that do business with South Africa because of that nation's racial separatist policies. Church officials said that about $6 million was involved in pension and foundation funds.
In another move seen as reaffirming the Presbyterians' liberal position, the delegates rejected the application of a group called Presbyterians for Democracy and Religious Freedom that sought to organize within the church. The group has ties to the Institute on Religion and Democracy, a Washington-based group that supports the Reagan Administration's policies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

419 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

October 14, 2015 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

A World Awash in Desperate Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 592 words

To the Editor:
Re ''Refugees, Stuck in Grinding U.S. Process, Wait and Hope'' (news article, Oct. 11): 
  The United States could meet its goals and resettle far more refugees from Syria, Iraq and other parts of the Middle East in the coming years if it reformed its process for screening refugees for national security concerns.
  That process, known innocuously as the Controlled Application Review and Resolution Program of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, is not only inefficient -- resulting in the reported delays of up to two years to process a refugee resettlement application -- but also ineffective and discriminatory. 
  The program relies heavily on profiling criteria, like national origin, languages spoken and professional expertise, to label applicants as possible ''national security concerns'' and bar them from resettling as refugees in the United States.
  Far from weeding out would-be terrorists, the program weeds out legitimate refugees. Increasing the quota of refugees the United States will accept for resettlement means little, so long as we cannot meet that quota because of the current screening process.
  It is imperative that the government reform that process to ensure that genuine refugees can expeditiously reach American shores.
  JENNIE PASQUARELLA
  Los Angeles
  The writer is a staff lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.
  To the Editor:
  Thanks to Sonia Nazario for documenting the experiences of the Prez family fleeing Honduras and hoping to find safety in the United States (''Refugees at Our Door,'' Sunday Review, Oct. 11).
  As a human rights observer and an international election observer in Honduras, I know that the violence they experienced in their country is widespread and occurs with impunity because of the complicity of the Honduran government.
  Assaults on Central Americans passing through Mexico that Ms. Nazario describes are also well known to those of us who volunteer with humanitarian organizations in Arizona, by the accounts we hear from the migrants we serve.
  The fact that our government bears significant responsibility for the violence that the Prez family and so many others confront in Honduras and Mexico is painful. Ours was the only government to accept the legitimacy of the 2009 military coup in Honduras. The resulting government, which remains in power by means of a flawed election, continues with United States political and financial support.
  The article brings to light ugly truths that all Americans need to know. And those of us who have come to know these refugees, and to respect their immense courage, want them to be understood and welcomed here. 
  LOIS MARTIN
  Tucson
  To the Editor:
  As migrants from the Middle East and North Africa continue to pour into Western Europe, increasingly through ''back door'' portals (''Why Are Migrants in the Arctic, on Bikes? Path Leads to Europe,'' front page, Oct. 10), other countries besides Germany and Sweden that are (or will be) ''labor short'' over the next 20 years -- like China, Japan, Russia and South Korea -- should open their doors to those fleeing persecution and war-related violence, at least temporarily.
  This would be mutually beneficial: It would alleviate the impending labor shortages in these countries to the benefit of their national economies, and would offer much-needed relief to the desperate refugees washing up on Europe's shores. 
  IRA SOHN
  Upper Montclair, N.J.
  The writer is a professor of economics and finance at Montclair State University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/14/opinion/a-world-awash-in-desperate-refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

421 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

December 10, 2004 Friday ST. PAUL EDITION

STUDY SAYS REFUGEE WOMEN AT RISK
VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE AFRAID TO SEEK SERVICES

BYLINE: TODD NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 403 words

Refugee and immigrant women who suffer domestic abuse occupy an "underworld of violence" often beyond the reach of advocates, the criminal justice system and others who could help them, according to an author of a report released today.
Language barriers, community pressures not to report domestic abuse and fear that a victim, spouse or both will face deportation are obstacles that often keep authorities from responding effectively, according to the report from Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, a Minneapolis-based nonprofit agency.
"The obstacles are great, and they are isolating refugee and immigrant women from safety and services," said Cheryl Thomas, director of the Women's Human Rights Program at Minnesota Advocates and an author of the report. "Police, prosecutors, advocates all expressed the concern that there's this world of violence going on that we don't see and can't access." 
The report is one of the first of its kind in the United States, said Eva Aguilar of Praxis International, a battered women's advocacy organization. Aguilar served on the report advisory committee.
Researchers spoke directly to battered refugee and immigrant women who came to this country under a variety of circumstances and from differing social classes. The women left their homelands in Latin America, Southeast Asia, East Africa and other parts of the world.
Minnesota Advocates undertook the study at the urging of a battered immigrant women's task force, social service providers and advocates for refugee and immigrant women. "There was just a need to document this clearly in a report they could use to make arguments for funding needs and other services," Thomas said.
Language barriers pose the greatest impediment to immigrant women seeking protection from domestic abuse, the report finds. Abusive men often use superior education and knowledge of English to isolate spouses from the community and services. A victim's inability to speak English -- police may rely on children, neighbors or even the suspected spouse to interpret -- could result in an inadequate or biased police report.
The report recommends making improvements to interpretation services, shelters, police domestic-violence units and legal and other services.
The report is posted at the agency's Web site at www.mnadvocates.org.
Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-557.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA DOMESTIC ABUSE

Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press 
All Rights Reserved

427 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 23, 1988, Saturday, Final Edition

Canada Tightens Laws on Refugee Claims

BYLINE: Herbert H. Denton, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 22, 1988

Tough immigration bills designed to give the Canadian government more power to deny entry to bogus refugee claimants were approved yesterday after an 11-month-long, acrimonious battle in parliament.
Two new laws give the government authority to turn back ships carrying illegal aliens and raise the penalties against persons helping illegal immigrants enter Canada to fines of up to $ 10,000 and jail terms of up to 10 years.
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney had called the House of Commons into an emergency session last August to pass the bills, but objections raised by church groups and refugee aid organizations delayed approval. 
Mulroney acted after a public outcry about abuse of Canada's immigration system that followed the landing of 174 Sikhs off the coast of Nova Scotia. There had been an uproar the previous summer after a boatload of Tamils fleeing refugee camps in West Germany and elsewhere in Europe, where aliens are often prohibited from working, had arrived in Canada off the coast of Newfoundland.
The new laws require that refugees seek asylum to escape political persecution rather than to seek economic gain.
Under old Canadian laws, authorities were forced to give the benefit of the doubt and allow entry to any alien who sought asylum, no matter how flimsy the claim.
Often it would take years to hold a hearing on the claim. By then, many with unfounded refugee claims had married Canadian citizens or taken other steps to legalize their status. There is currently a backlog of about 50,000 such cases.
Illegal aliens flocked to Canada from Asia, South America, southern Europe and Africa. Authorities said there even was a handful of Americans who claimed political persecution in the United States.
In the new system, authorities will be able to send refugees back to "safe" countries while their claims are being considered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1988 The Washington Post

428 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

January 28, 2017 Saturday

Utah refugees feel the sting of Trump's executive order; 
Executive order  Ibrahim Abdalla, a Sudanese emigrant who became a U.S. citizen, is among many in Utah who fear they won't see loved ones.

BYLINE: By Mariah Noble The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH NEWS; Politics

LENGTH: 1329 words

It's been a year and three months since Ibrahim Abdalla has seen his wife, and after an executive order Friday, he's not sure when they'll meet again.
Abdalla, 54, of West Valley City, fled from his genocide-plagued homeland of Sudan in 1998, and after living for years in a Jordanian refugee camp, he was admitted to the United States in 2004. He worked to become a U.S. citizen and establish a life here, opening an ethnic grocery store in Salt Lake City with his cousin. In October 2015, he took a trip overseas to get married.
After returning to America, he's spent time working to bring his wife here and start their new life together.
Then, on Friday, President Donald Trump signed the order suspending refugee admissions for 120 days, placing an indefinite ban on immigrants from Syria and a 90-day ban on people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. 
"This is hard for me, [not knowing] how she will come," Abdalla said Saturday. "I'm wondering how can we get my wife. ... I don't see how she can come."
Things had seemed to be moving along for Abdalla's wife, he said. She had her interview at the U.S. Embassy and submitted her passport to U.S. officials in November -- generally the last step in the process before a visa is granted.
For three months, she's waited to get her passport back and heard nothing, Abdalla said.
Even if she is granted a visa, he said, the executive order could stand in the way of her journey.
Abdalla has a meeting this week with attorney Brian Tanner, who says he has several clients in a similar situation.
One woman from Somalia -- now a U.S. citizen -- has been separated from her son for 12 years, after he was mistakenly listed as a nephew or stepson instead of a biological son on papers and denied admittance to the U.S., Tanner said.
The son was born after his mother fled Somalia, Tanner said, but because of the lack of birthright citizenship in East African countries, he's a citizen of a Somalia -- a country in which he's never stepped foot.
Tanner submitted papers last week for the son to come to the United States, he said, but under Trump's executive order, the son's citizenship disqualifies him from joining his mother, forcing him to continue living in and out of refugee camps -- as he has for the past decade.
"We're really worried that they won't be able to see each other again," Tanner said.
Aden Batar, the refugee-resettlement and immigration director for Catholic Community Services of Utah, feels disheartened as he watches the United States close its doors on refugees.
Batar came to the U.S. from Somalia 23 years ago.
"Refugees from those countries, they cannot go back," he said. "I'm originally from Somalia, [but] Utah is my home because I still can't go back."
The refugee-resettlement program "saves lives," he added, and it doesn't put national security at risk. Asha Parekh, director for Utah Refugee Services in the Department of Workforce Services, said the office has already heard "increased concerns" from refugees over what might happen as a result of the executive order.
"We cannot turn our backs on those refugees who are already here," Parekh said. "Part of our state's heritage is to accept people who have been persecuted and driven out of their home. That is Utah."
There's a sense of uneasiness among refugees, Parekh said, as reports of bullying and persecution have grown over the last year.
Refugees have been arriving in Utah every week, Batar said, but the ban will change that. While immigrants were detained at airports elsewhere in the country, there was no indication that had occurred in Salt Lake City. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which was fielding calls from reporters, did not answer several phone calls Saturday from The Salt Lake Tribune.
Since resettlement programs began in the 1970s, Utah has accepted 60,000 refugees from 50 countries, Batar said. The new executive order is "devastating" for them.
The Trump administration should look at the situation in a "humane way," Batar said, adding that Congress has a responsibility to fulfill past commitments to accept refugees.
"Our president needs to get the right information," he said. "He needs to go visit the refugee camps and see how they live."
Refugees have been victims themselves, he said, experiencing torture, bombings and loss of loved ones firsthand. Refugees are already carefully vetted, he said, and become contributing members of U.S. society.
"Different consular officers and the refugee-resettlement people do the best job possibly can to verify that people are truly fearing for their lives," Tanner said.
Refugee visas aren't easy to come by, he added, and if people truly were intent on causing problems for the United States, they could find an easier way to do it.
"The idea of going and trying to sneak into a refugee camp and essentially languishing there under really terrible conditions for months and months and months, and then doing it under the pretense of 'I'm going to trick people into thinking I'm a refugee when really I'm just wanting to hurt people' -- it's ludicrous," Tanner said. "People have way better things to with their time than just hang out in really substandard living conditions."
Keeping refugees out "is not American. That is not who we are," Batar said. "Refugees need our help. We're a nation of immigrants and refugees, and we can't turn our backs on them."
Coming to the United States "saved" Batar and his family, he said. "Now I'm member of community. I'm a law-abiding citizen."
He says he's also frustrated that the United States is detaining people who have worked as interpreters for the military overseas, and he's concerned how it will affect the world's view of the nation.
"If we send them back, what message would that send? Who's going to work with our forces?" Batar said. "It's not making America safe."
Utah will continue to provide support and services to refugees who are already here, Parekh said, and will try to "quell fears" by making sure they know their rights and where to report harassment.
"There is a lot still unknown about how President Trump's executive order is going to affect refugees in the long term," she said. "We want to get all of the details and information before we act."
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Saturday issued a statement expressing "special concern for those who are fleeing physical violence, war and religious persecution."
"The Church," the statement went on to say, "urges all people and governments to cooperate fully in seeking the best solutions to meet human needs and relieve suffering."
But the unknowns have refugees worried.
Abdalla spoke to his wife three days ago, but he's worried things will be different now. He tried calling today, but no one picked up.
He's "just waiting."
mnoble@sltrib.com
Twitter: @mnoblenews --
Protesters rally at SLC International Airport
Hundreds of Utahns protested President Donald Trump's executive order at Salt Lake City International Airport. There were similar protests at other airports across the country in response to how some immigrants entering the country were detained at airports hours after Trump signed the order.
While there were no reports of detentions in Salt Lake City before the order was temporarily halted, several in the crowd said they came to show their opposition to the executive order.
"We go to war to defend the freedom of all people," said Bart Tippetts, 71, who fought in Vietnam in 1966 and 1967.
Ella Mendoza, an undocumented immigrant from Peru, said she walked through the same airport halls when she came to Utah 14 years ago. "My message is here," Mendoza said. "No wall. No ban."
The youngest in a stream of people to tell stories through a megaphone at the center of a circle of supporters was Millie Kraatz, 8, of Salt Lake City, who told the crowd she was scared. "I don't think it's fair to not let them in just because they're different," Kraatz said while standing next to her 10-year-old sister.
Taylor Anderson

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

429 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 30, 2014 Thursday

Passage to Casablanca: the Refugee Crisis in Morocco during World War II

LENGTH: 241  words

DATELINE: berkeley 

 berkeley University of California has isasued tha following news release:
Passage to Casablanca: the Refugee Crisis in Morocco during World War II 
Lecture | October 30 | 5-6:30 p.m. | Stephens Hall, 340, Sultan Conference Room
Speaker: Prof. Susan Gilson Miller, Department of History, UC Davis
Sponsor: Center for Middle Eastern Studies
The massive influx of European refugees into Morocco during World War II had lasting effects on that country's social, economic, and political life. Against the background of a fractured and depleted colonial system, thousands of Europeans set adrift by war struggled to maintain a temporary foothold in North Africa, using it as a way station to more secure havens in North and South America. Some Europeans passed through quickly, while others were truly stranded and became enmeshed in native society as penniless migrants, petty criminals, political activists, forced laborers, ambitious entrepreneurs, and political "undesirables." In this lecture, Susan Miller examines the array of conjunctures between Europeans and Moroccans in the chaotic years of 1940 to 1945, when themes of race, class, ethnicity, nationalism, legal status, and religious difference transfixed people caught in the web of the humanitarian crisis brought on by global war.
Event Contact: cmes@berkeley.edu, 510-642-8208
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

430 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

May 1, 2009 Friday  
Late Edition - Final

Roosevelt And the Jews: A Debate Rekindled

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1223 words

Franklin Delano Roosevelt's legacy has been slid back under the microscope recently as    his efforts to pull the country out of the Great Depression are scrutinized. Now a piece of his foreign policy is also being re-evaluated  in a soon-to-be published book that upends a widely held view that he was indifferent to the fate of Europe's Jews, and asserts that  new evidence shows that the president pushed for an ambitious secret rescue plan before the war began.
  The book,  an edited collection of official documents, diaries, internal memos and more,   contends that Roosevelt hatched a scheme in 1938 to rally the world's democracies and relocate millions of European Jews to undeveloped areas in Latin America and Africa.
  ''It is a book that will change the consensus about the role of President Roosevelt,'' said Deborah Lipstadt, a leading expert on the Holocaust, who has read some sections. It ''compels historians  --  both those who have vilified F.D.R. and those who have sanctified him  -- to rethink their conclusions.''  
  The book, ''Refugees and Rescue: The Diaries and Papers of James G. McDonald, 1935-1945,''  will undoubtedly reignite the charged debate over whether  Roosevelt could have done more to rescue millions of Jews, Gypsies, gay people, dissidents and others who died in Nazi death camps. To his detractors, the refusal in June 1939 to take in any of the more than 900  Jews aboard the ocean liner  St. Louis who were seeking a haven after Germany's deadly Kristallnacht is much more emblematic of the United States' response. Many of those passengers ultimately died.
  This is the second of a three-volume set of Mr. McDonald's papers being published by Indiana University Press in association with the United States  Holocaust Memorial Museum. Mr. McDonald was the high commissioner for refugees for the League of Nations, the chairman of a presidential advisory committee on refugees and later the first American ambassador to Israel. The book also includes material from the Center for Jewish History and the Holocaust Museum. 
  The editors -- the historians Richard Breitman, Barbara McDonald Stewart and Severin Hochberg -- maintain that   Roosevelt did a lot, given Congress's implacable resistance to raising the quota on immigrants. Rather than publicly support measures  revising the quotas,   which he was sure would fail, he instead proposed an alternate means of escape behind the scenes, even pledging at one point to ask Congress to appropriate $150 million for resettlement.
  ''He was a man of grand vision who wanted to resettle a much larger number of refugees from Germany'' and elsewhere, the editors  conclude, citing a directive from Washington in June 1938 indicating that officials should deal with ''the problems of refugees from all countries.'' They agree that such efforts were completely dropped in 1940 when Roosevelt turned his attention to the war.
  One of the new pieces of evidence that the editors point to  is a summary written by Arthur Sweetser,  a director of the secretariat of  the League of Nations, describing a meeting between himself and the president on April 4, 1938:
  Mr. Sweetser wrote that Roosevelt  asked him how he liked his refugee proposal. '' 'That was my proposal,' the president quickly interjected, tapping his chest with obvious pleasure. 'I worked that out myself.' '' 
  The summary continues, with Mr. Sweetser quoting Roosevelt: '' 'Suddenly it struck me: why not get all the democracies to unite to share the burden? After all, they own most of the free land of the world, and there are only ... what would you say, 14, 16 million Jews in the whole world, of whom about half are already in the United States. If we could divide up the remainder in groups of 8 or 10, there wouldn't be any Jewish problem in three or four generations.' ''
  In a confidential memo to Mr. McDonald dated May 17, 1938, Mr. Sweetser wrote, ''The  President's proposal took a large place in the League's refugee deliberations this past week.'' 
  Paul Shapiro, director of the museum's Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies, said, ''What is quite striking here is that at this moment in 1938 Roosevelt is very seized by this issue of rescuing the Jews.'' Germany's occupation of Austria showed how much life changed overnight for Jews there. The book includes ''important new documentation about F.D.R. and his efforts to save the Jews,'' he added. Roosevelt supported using German, French and British colonies in Africa and elsewhere as well as countries in South America as possible havens. And he privately nudged the British to let more Jews into Palestine, said Mr. Breitman, a history professor at American University.
  Mr. Hochberg, who teaches at George Washington University, said: ''As a result of these efforts, Bolivia saved over 20,000 Jews between 1938 and 1944  --  in proportion to its size, more than any other American nation. Without the Bolivian option, many of these Jews would have died during the Holocaust.''
  By the spring of 1939, the most promising strategy seemed to be an agreement with Berlin that would permit a privately financed foundation to resettle refugees, the editors state. The proposal was contentious because some Jews didn't trust Germany and feared that it amounted to tacit approval of confiscation of Jewish assets. 
  On May 4, 1939, Roosevelt met at the White House with Jewish leaders and told them that there was no time to set up a new foundation, but that an existing  organization should immediately agree to the plan. 
  ''It was not so much a question of the money as it was of actual lives, and the president was convinced that the warnings given by our embassy in Berlin were sound and not exaggerated,'' according to the diary of Jay Pierrepont Moffat, a State Department official at the meeting.
  Refugee leaders were still at odds when Hitler invaded Poland on Sept. 1.
  David Wyman and Rafael Medoff of the Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies in Washington, who have written extensively about America's response to the persecution of Jews, are  unimpressed with the excerpts from ''Refugees and Rescue'' that they've read. 
  Most of the actions have been mentioned in some form before, they said in a statement. In their view,  Roosevelt may have talked about some pie-in-the-sky plans, but when it came to taking  substantive action, he did nothing. For instance, they said, he opposed the 1939 Wagner-Rogers bill that would have permitted the United States to take in 20,000 Jewish children from Germany in addition to the existing German-Austrian quota of 27,370.
  ''F.D.R. failed to ask for that $150 million, just as he failed to support Wagner-Rogers,'' they said. ''Both actions by F.D.R. indicate his lack of seriousness about helping Jewish refugees.'' They added  that his ''administration discouraged and obstructed would-be immigrants.'' 
  To Mr. Shapiro, whether this new material will drastically change the way people see Roosevelt depends on their existing disposition. ''Probably none of us will ever know what was really in F.D.R.'s mind at a given time,'' he said. For those  who see the potential of  an individual's   being moved by the Jewish tragedy, ''they will find that here.'' As for others, he added, they will say, ''in the end, it didn't stop the murder of six million Jews.'' 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, from left, President Roosevelt in 1937
Arthur Sweetser, a director of the secretariat of the League of Nations
members of Roosevelt's advisory committee on political refugees, Hamilton F. Armstrong, Sumner Welles, George Warren and James G. McDonald
Jewish refugees in 1940 on the steamship Quanza at Norfolk, Va. Below, an excerpt from a memo by Mr. Sweetser.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN JEWISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY COLLECTION AT THE CENTER FOR JEWISH HISTORY) (pg. C30)                                                            

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company

432 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

January 19, 1988, Tuesday, Final Edition

Sen. Inouye's School (Cont'd.)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A14; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 346 words

Irene Novak's letter ["Sen. Inouye's School in France," Jan. 7] is yet another example of the ignorance of the U.S. taxpayer as to who is a refugee and who is funding the refugees in the Arab-Israeli conflict.
For the past 40 years, we have heard only about the Arab refugees. Little is known of the 856,000 Jews who lived in Arab countries before 1948, indeed, long before the dawn of Islam. Of these, 830,000 were forced to leave their countries of birth and find refuge in Israel, Europe and the Americas. These Jews left behind incalculable assets in property and cultural and religious patrimony accumulated from more than 2,000 years of living in these countries. 
Most of these Jews arrived destitute to their new homes. Unlike their Arab counterpart, Jews did not benefit from funds of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency. Yet these Jews are the other side of the coin of the Middle East refugee problem. Between 1949 and 1974, the United States and Israel contributed $ 582,339,802 to UNRWA's budget, which was allocated to provide relief assistance for all refugees of the Near East. This should have included Jews from Arab countries as well. Instead, more than $ 1 billion to date has gone to the rehabilitation of Palestinian refugees alone, who were refused resettlement by their Arab brethren in the vast land of the Arab nation extending from the Persian Gulf to the Atlantic Ocean.
Therefore, Irene Novak and others should not feel distraught by the allocation of a meager $ 8 million for children of Jewish refugees from North Africa, which has been allocated for learning and not for political or military ends.
Perhaps the time has arrived for Congress, the White House and the American public to recognize the other refugee problem that has been neglected over the past 40 years. In acknowledging their plight as well, we will discover the missing part of the solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.
MAURICE M. ROUMANI
College Park
The writer is a professor of political science and Middle Eastern studies at the University of Maryland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1988 The Washington Post

434 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 29, 2010 Wednesday  
The New York Times on the Web

Clean-Burning Cookstoves for Developing Countries

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 233 words

To the Editor:
Re ''Developing Nations to Get Clean-Burning Cookstoves'' (news article, Sept. 21): 
It is great news that the United States will provide $50 million to help provide clean-burning cookstoves for villages in Asia, Africa and South America. In addition to the appalling health risks (1.9 million deaths a year due to inhaling smoke from open fires) and the environmental devastation caused by cutting down trees for fuel, women and girls risk rape and sexual violence when they gather wood to cook or sell.
This is particularly true in refugee camps and other displaced settings, where fuel is typically not provided to cook the food that displaced people receive.
In addition, girls may miss out on education opportunities as they spend hours each day foraging for cooking fuel or stay at home to watch younger siblings as their mothers collect firewood.
It is essential that the clean-burning stove initiative -- both the provision of stoves and the development of local stove-making businesses -- reaches humanitarian settings, as it will enhance the protection of refugee women and girls immeasurably.
Sarah Costa New York, Sept. 21, 2010
The writer is executive director of the Women's Refugee Commission, which is working with an international network of humanitarian agencies, inventors, technical experts and donors to develop stoves and fuels for use in humanitarian settings worldwide.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company

436 of 996 DOCUMENTS

San Jose Mercury News (California)

NOVEMBER 15, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT'S AHEAD FOR U.S. FORCES IN ZAIRE

BYLINE: Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

President Clinton is expected to announce today that the United States will send military forces to take part in the humanitarian effort to aid refugees in Zaire. Here is a look at the problem, what the United States might do to help, and the conditions that must be met for the U.S. to become involved:
The problem: More than 1 million Rwandan refugees, mostly members of the Hutu ethnic group, are trapped in eastern Zaire. They recently were cut off from food, clean water, health care and other assistance during an outbreak of fighting among the Zairean army, Rwandan Hutu guerrillas, and other military factions. 
What's expected: The Americans and other U.N. military forces would help secure an airport at Goma, near the refugees, to permit international relief organizations to fly in food and set the stage for other assistance. About 1,000 U.S. infantry soldiers - spearheaded by Army paratroopers based in Vicenza, Italy - and about 400 Canadians would help secure a three-mile-long corridor between Goma airport and Rwanda through which refugees could return home safely. About 4,000 American soldiers are expected to participate in airlift and security operations over about four months.
Potential dangers: American forces would face conditions as dangerous and chaotic as those three years ago in Somalia, where 18 U.S. service personnel died in a firefight. There are tens of thousands of armed Rwandan Hutu militia members and 40,000 former Rwandan soldiers mixed in among the civilians who fled their country in 1994. Any relief and repatriation would have to deal with the presence of these guerrillas and soldiers as well as with the murderous anger between Rwandan Hutus and the now-dominant Rwandan Tutsis.
American conditions: While President Clinton called American participation in the relief effort "vital," he set a series of stringent conditions that must be met before American troops would participate, including:
Local governments and forces now fighting must agree to the peaceful entry of United Nations troops.
The U.S. forces will not attempt to disarm militias or other fighting forces and will be prepared to respond violently in the event of attack under "very robust rules of engagement."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on page 1A

Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News 
All Rights Reserved

439 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

June 17, 2015 Wednesday

Celebrating their new home

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 96 words

When they woke up, they were from somewhere else: small countries in Europe or Africa or Central America. By the time the sun set, they were American citizens. About three dozen immigrants took the oath of allegiance to the United States in Tampa on Tuesday in ceremonies timed to coincide with World Refugee Day. More than 30,000 refugees settle in Florida every year through the state's Department of Children and Families Refugee Services program. Last year, 3,147 of those refugees settled in the Tampa Bay area, mostly in Hillsborough or Pinellas counties.
From staff reports 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

440 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Offers U.S. Troops to Help Refugees in Zaire

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

President Clinton gave initial approval today to the deployment of several thousand United States troops as part of a Canadian-led mission to avoid a human catastrophe and bring food and water to hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees in Zaire, where aid supplies have been cut by recent fighting.
The White House announced that if certain conditions were nailed down in the next few days, the troops would take part in a four-month long effort involving as many as 15,000 troops from a dozen nations and led by a Canadian commander with a United States officer as his deputy. 
 "The President has decided that the United States is willing, in principle, to participate in a limited fashion in this mission as long as certain conditions are stipulated to," Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said at a mid-day briefing.
The announcement cleared the way for the United Nations Security Council to work on a resolution, already drafted by Canada, to authorize the international mission, perhaps by week's end. The statement was issued after a morning phone call between Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada and a night of consultations between Canadian and American officials at the White House.
Mr. Clinton is expected to make a public statement about the Zaire deployment, as well as the role the United States plans to play in Bosnia next year, by midday Friday when he leaves for a trip to Australia and Asia, built around an Asian economic summit conference.
[In another matter related to the use of American troops abroad, NATO's Secretary General said he came away from a meeting with Vice President Al Gore with the conviction that the United States would keep some troops in Bosnia after the current mandate ends. Page A10.]
Administration officials said United States forces sent to East Africa would secure the airfield at Goma -- at the heart of relief operations in war-ravaged eastern Zaire -- as well as a three-mile corridor from Goma to the Rwandan border. The mission is intended to encourage the refugees, Hutu who fled Rwanda when a Tutsi-led Government won power in 1994, to return home.
They would also assist in the airlift of other troops to the region. American officials said that about 1,000 United States troops would be stationed in Zaire and an additional 2,000 to 3,000 troops would be based in neighboring countries like Kenya and Uganda.
Mr. Clinton's national security team has been quietly consulting with world leaders for weeks about the crisis in Zaire.
Administration officials said the caution and reserve with which the United States has approached an intervention force was not related to Mr. Clinton's re-election campaign but to a desire to avoid a repetition of the American experience in Somalia in 1993, when a similar relief mission conducted during a chaotic civil conflict drew American forces into the fighting there.
Mr. McCurry said today that under the conditions set by the United States, the international mission in eastern Zaire would be "very clearly defined" as an effort of four months' duration to enable civilian relief organizations to deliver aid to hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees who have been cut off by fighting between Zairian rebels, the Zairian Army and Rwandan Hutu militias.
He said the force would also help the voluntary return of refugees to Rwanda, using relief supplies as a magnet. In Kinshasa, Zaire's capital, the Canadian special United Nations representative, Raymond Chretien, said food and clinics would be set up in Rwanda or along the protected corridor to encourage people to head home.
But how successful such an effort would be is a major question. Hutu guerrillas living among the refugees have used propaganda and intimidation during the last two years to prevent them from returning home, and many refugees fear reprisals by the Tutsi-led Rwanda Government.
Attacks on Rwanda by Hutu guerrillas based in the huge refugee camps near the border were a factor leading to the recent eruption of fighting. But the tentative plans for an international relief mission do not appear to include steps to prevent re-establishment of such camps.
Mr. McCurry said that the international force would not disarm the militias and would not force its way into the refugee camps or police them.
He said that the force would follow "very robust rules of engagement." Defense Secretary William J. Perry said the American decision to take part in the force was contingent on securing commitments by African countries involved, principally Zaire and Rwanda, not to interfere with the mission. He said contact would also have to be made with rebel forces in the area. "Our assumption is that we would have their acquiescence and cooperation," Mr. Perry said.
The Defense Secretary said an infantry battalion and armored helicopter gunships would be sent to Zaire to insure that the American mission was protected. American forces would report to an American general who would be deputy commander of the international force serving under Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, a Canadian officer.
Diplomatic efforts led by Richard Begosian, a special American envoy, were under way to secure the permission of the governments in the area to allow the international force in.
"We are talking about a dangerous environment," said Glyn Davies, a State Department spokesman, "and that means that the work over the next couple of days on the ground has to be impressing upon the militias the importance of ceasing their fighting and cooperating with the international effort that's to be mounted."
But there were many signs that numerous difficulties remained. In an indication of the resistance the international forces might encounter, two teams from the Agency for International Development were turned back by Zairian rebels, Mr. Davies said.
Anthony Lake, the White House national security adviser, as well as Under Secretary of Defense Walter Slocombe and Lieut. Gen. Peter Pace, an Air Force officer who is the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are to be sent to the United Nations on Thursday to put the final touches on the mission with the Canadians, officials said.
Mr. McCurry said the President was also awaiting word from a Pentagon assessment team in Central Africa and a diplomatic team working in the region.
The President "reserves the right to review" the final plans, Mr. McCurry said, although he affirmed that Mr. Clinton "agrees that U.S. participation in this important humanitarian mission is vital."
American officials said troops could begin flying into Zaire as early as next week. A Pentagon official said the 1,000 American troops bound for Zaire would include about 600 soldiers from the 1st Battalion, 508th Airborne Infantry Regiment, based in Vicenza, Italy. The official said that about 150 Air Force personnel would set up a refueling base at the Goma airport.
Congressional leaders expressed concern for the plight of the refugees in Zaire, but said their support for the mission hinged on the Administration setting specific goals and a specific strategy for removing American troops.
"We're just waiting to get a briefing from the White House about their goals and time line," said Lauren Sims, a spokeswoman for Representative Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, the Speaker of the House.
Susan Irby, a spokeswoman for Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, the majority leader, said Mr. Lott was taking a "wait-and-see attitude" until the questions are resolved.
But at least one influential legislator, Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, raised objections to paying for the American deployment with money from the Pentagon's operations budget, the same account that pays for operations like pilot training.
"If they don't find an alternative funding source, then they'll have a lot of trouble here," said Marc Thiessen, a spokesman for Mr. Helms, who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "This smells like Somalia all over again."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Goma residents pounced on supplies sent to Zaire for refugees dying of thirst and starvation. The fighting that has kept aid from reaching refugees, most of them Rwandans, has also cut the normal food supply. Page A14. (Associated Press) (pg. A1)
 
Map: "UPDATE: Guarding the Relief Teams"
 The United States may join Britain, France and other countries in a Canadian-led military operation to aid starving Rwandan refugees in eastern Zaire. About 1,000 American ground troops will secure the Goma airfield and a corridor from there to the Rwandan border, while several thousand more Americans will provide support in nearby countries.
 Map shows locations of refugee camps in the region. (pg. A14)      

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

442 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Intelligencer Journal (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

February 8, 2006, Wednesday

'The Lost Boys' film will be show Feb. 19

SECTION: M; Pg. 05

LENGTH: 114  words

A screening of "The Lost Boys" is planned Feb. 19 at 11:30 a.m. at Unitarian Universalist Church of Lancaster, 538 W. Chestnut St. The church social action committee invites the public to the free viewing. The documentary follows two Sudanese refugees on an extraordinary journey from Africa to America. Orphaned as young boys in one of Africa's cruelest civil wars, they lived much of their childhood in a Kenyan refugee camp. Safe at last from physical danger and hunger, a world away from home, they find themselves confronted with the abundance and alienation of contemporary America. Information not covered in the film will discussed by a "lost boy" now living in Lancaster County. 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.

443 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

May 18, 2017 Thursday  
The New York Times on the Web

300,000 Child Refugees and Migrants Traveled Alone in '15 and '16, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE. 
Follow Rick Gladstone on Twitter @rickgladstone .

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 400 words

UNITED NATIONS -- The number of children traveling by themselves among documented refugees and migrants has nearly quintupled to the highest on record, and many of them are at risk from smugglers, sex traffickers and other predators, the United Nations said in a report published on Wednesday. 
The report said the findings amounted to an alarming international lapse in providing basic safety and security for the world's most vulnerable people. 
  ''One child moving alone is one too many, and yet today, there are a staggering number of children doing just that,'' said Justin Forsyth, the deputy executive director of Unicef. ''We as adults are failing to protect them.''
  At least 300,000 unaccompanied and separated children were recorded in 80 countries in 2015 and 2016 combined, compared with 66,000 in 2010 and 2011, the report said.
  The 300,000 figure included 170,000 children who had applied for asylum in Europe and 100,000 who had been detained at the border between Mexico and the United States.
  In a telephone interview, Mr. Forsyth said the report documented not only a rapid rise in the number of unaccompanied children but also ''a lot more abuse'' by traffickers and members of organized crime who exploit them.
  He also said the numbers in the report understated the problem because they reflected only children found among registered populations of refugees and migrants.
  ''This is the tip of the iceberg,'' he said. ''Many children who never register fall into the hands of smugglers. The real number is much bigger. We lack an enormous amount of data.''
  Mr. Forsyth said the release of the report was timed to come ahead of the Group of 7 summit meeting on May 26 and 27 in Taormina, Sicily, where the refugee and migrant crisis will be an important topic.
  Italy has been the principal entry point for refugees and migrants making the treacherous Mediterranean crossing from Africa, and the United Nations report said roughly 90 percent of children undertaking that voyage were traveling alone -- mostly from Egypt, Eritrea, Gambia, Guinea and Nigeria.
  The report urged the Group of 7 participants, which will include President Trump, to strengthen protections for child refugees, including by ending their detention at border crossings, finding ways to keep families together and combating the ''discrimination, xenophobia and stigma'' that often victimizes uprooted children.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/17/world/americas/united-nations-children-refugees-migrants-trafficking.html

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company

452 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

January 30, 2017 Monday

Utah refugees feel the sting of Trump's executive order

BYLINE: By Mariah Noble The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 1136 words

It's been a year and three months since Ibrahim Abdalla has seen his wife, and after an executive order Friday, he's not sure when they'll meet again.
Abdalla, 54, of West Valley City, fled from his genocide-plagued homeland of Sudan in 1998, and after living for years in a Jordanian refugee camp, he was admitted to the United States in 2004. He worked to become a U.S. citizen and establish a life here, opening an ethnic grocery store in Salt Lake City with his cousin. In October 2015, he took a trip overseas to get married.
After returning to America, he's spent time working to bring his wife here and start their new life together.
Then, on Friday, President Donald Trump signed the order suspending refugee admissions for 120 days, placing an indefinite ban on immigrants from Syria and a 90-day ban on people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. 
"This is hard for me, [not knowing] how she will come," Abdalla said Saturday. "I'm wondering how can we get my wife. ... I don't see how she can come."
Things had seemed to be moving along for Abdalla's wife, he said. She had her interview at the U.S. Embassy and submitted her passport to U.S. officials in November ccccc generally the last step in the process before a visa is granted.
For three months, she's waited to get her passport back and heard nothing, Abdalla said.
Even if she is granted a visa, he said, the executive order could stand in the way of her journey.
Abdalla has a meeting this week with attorney Brian Tanner, who says he has several clients in a similar situation.
One woman from Somalia ccc now a U.S. citizen ccc has been separated from her son for 12 years, after he was mistakenly listed as a nephew or stepson instead of a biological son on papers and denied admittance to the U.S., Tanner said.
The son was born after his mother fled Somalia, Tanner said, but because of the lack of birthright citizenship in East African countries, he's a citizen of a Somalia ccc a country in which he's never stepped foot.
Tanner submitted papers last week for the son to come to the United States, he said, but under Trump's executive order, the son's citizenship disqualifies him from joining his mother, forcing him to continue living in and out of refugee camps ccc as he has for the past decade.
"We're really worried that they won't be able to see each other again," Tanner said.
Aden Batar, the refugee-resettlement and immigration director for Catholic Community Services of Utah, feels disheartened as he watches the United States close its doors on refugees.
Batar came to the U.S. from Somalia 23 years ago.
"Refugees from those countries, they cannot go back," he said. "I'm originally from Somalia, [but] Utah is my home because I still can't go back."
The refugee-resettlement program "saves lives," he added, and it doesn't put national security at risk. Asha Parekh, director for Utah Refugee Services in the Department of Workforce Services, said the office has already heard "increased concerns" from refugees over what might happen as a result of the executive order.
"We cannot turn our backs on those refugees who are already here," Parekh said. "Part of our state's heritage is to accept people who have been persecuted and driven out of their home. That is Utah."
There's a sense of uneasiness among refugees, Parekh said, as reports of bullying and persecution have grown over the last year.
Refugees have been arriving in Utah every week, Batar said, but the ban will change that. While immigrants were detained at airports elsewhere in the country, there was no indication that had occurred in Salt Lake City. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which was fielding calls from reporters, did not answer several phone calls Saturday from The Salt Lake Tribune.
Since resettlement programs began in the 1970s, Utah has accepted 60,000 refugees from 50 countries, Batar said. The new executive order is "devastating" for them.
The Trump administration should look at the situation in a "humane way," Batar said, adding that Congress has a responsibility to fulfill past commitments to accept refugees.
"Our president needs to get the right information," he said. "He needs to go visit the refugee camps and see how they live."
Refugees have been victims themselves, he said, experiencing torture, bombings and loss of loved ones firsthand. Refugees are already carefully vetted, he said, and become contributing members of U.S. society.
"Different consular officers and the refugee-resettlement people do the best job possibly can to verify that people are truly fearing for their lives," Tanner said.
Refugee visas aren't easy to come by, he added, and if people truly were intent on causing problems for the United States, they could find an easier way to do it.
"The idea of going and trying to sneak into a refugee camp and essentially languishing there under really terrible conditions for months and months and months, and then doing it under the pretense of 'I'm going to trick people into thinking I'm a refugee when really I'm just wanting to hurt people' ccc it's ludicrous," Tanner said. "People have way better things to with their time than just hang out in really substandard living conditions."
Keeping refugees out "is not American. That is not who we are," Batar said. "Refugees need our help. We're a nation of immigrants and refugees, and we can't turn our backs on them."
Coming to the United States "saved" Batar and his family, he said. "Now I'm member of community. I'm a law-abiding citizen."
He says he's also frustrated that the United States is detaining people who have worked as interpreters for the military overseas, and he's concerned how it will affect the world's view of the nation.
"If we send them back, what message would that send? Who's going to work with our forces?" Batar said. "It's not making America safe."
Utah will continue to provide support and services to refugees who are already here, Parekh said, and will try to "quell fears" by making sure they know their rights and where to report harassment.
"There is a lot still unknown about how President Trump's executive order is going to affect refugees in the long term," she said. "We want to get all of the details and information before we act."
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Saturday issued a statement expressing "special concern for those who are fleeing physical violence, war and religious persecution."
"The Church," the statement went on to say, "urges all people and governments to cooperate fully in seeking the best solutions to meet human needs and relieve suffering."
But the unknowns have refugees worried.
Abdalla spoke to his wife three days ago, but he's worried things will be different now. He tried calling today, but no one picked up.
He's "just waiting."
mnoble@sltrib.com
Twitter: @mnoblenews

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

453 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

January 30, 2017 Monday

Utah refugees feel the sting of Trump's executive order

BYLINE: By Mariah Noble The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 1136 words

It's been a year and three months since Ibrahim Abdalla has seen his wife, and after an executive order Friday, he's not sure when they'll meet again.
Abdalla, 54, of West Valley City, fled from his genocide-plagued homeland of Sudan in 1998, and after living for years in a Jordanian refugee camp, he was admitted to the United States in 2004. He worked to become a U.S. citizen and establish a life here, opening an ethnic grocery store in Salt Lake City with his cousin. In October 2015, he took a trip overseas to get married.
After returning to America, he's spent time working to bring his wife here and start their new life together.
Then, on Friday, President Donald Trump signed the order suspending refugee admissions for 120 days, placing an indefinite ban on immigrants from Syria and a 90-day ban on people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen. 
"This is hard for me, [not knowing] how she will come," Abdalla said Saturday. "I'm wondering how can we get my wife. ... I don't see how she can come."
Things had seemed to be moving along for Abdalla's wife, he said. She had her interview at the U.S. Embassy and submitted her passport to U.S. officials in November ccccc generally the last step in the process before a visa is granted.
For three months, she's waited to get her passport back and heard nothing, Abdalla said.
Even if she is granted a visa, he said, the executive order could stand in the way of her journey.
Abdalla has a meeting this week with attorney Brian Tanner, who says he has several clients in a similar situation.
One woman from Somalia ccc now a U.S. citizen ccc has been separated from her son for 12 years, after he was mistakenly listed as a nephew or stepson instead of a biological son on papers and denied admittance to the U.S., Tanner said.
The son was born after his mother fled Somalia, Tanner said, but because of the lack of birthright citizenship in East African countries, he's a citizen of a Somalia ccc a country in which he's never stepped foot.
Tanner submitted papers last week for the son to come to the United States, he said, but under Trump's executive order, the son's citizenship disqualifies him from joining his mother, forcing him to continue living in and out of refugee camps ccc as he has for the past decade.
"We're really worried that they won't be able to see each other again," Tanner said.
Aden Batar, the refugee-resettlement and immigration director for Catholic Community Services of Utah, feels disheartened as he watches the United States close its doors on refugees.
Batar came to the U.S. from Somalia 23 years ago.
"Refugees from those countries, they cannot go back," he said. "I'm originally from Somalia, [but] Utah is my home because I still can't go back."
The refugee-resettlement program "saves lives," he added, and it doesn't put national security at risk. Asha Parekh, director for Utah Refugee Services in the Department of Workforce Services, said the office has already heard "increased concerns" from refugees over what might happen as a result of the executive order.
"We cannot turn our backs on those refugees who are already here," Parekh said. "Part of our state's heritage is to accept people who have been persecuted and driven out of their home. That is Utah."
There's a sense of uneasiness among refugees, Parekh said, as reports of bullying and persecution have grown over the last year.
Refugees have been arriving in Utah every week, Batar said, but the ban will change that. While immigrants were detained at airports elsewhere in the country, there was no indication that had occurred in Salt Lake City. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which was fielding calls from reporters, did not answer several phone calls Saturday from The Salt Lake Tribune.
Since resettlement programs began in the 1970s, Utah has accepted 60,000 refugees from 50 countries, Batar said. The new executive order is "devastating" for them.
The Trump administration should look at the situation in a "humane way," Batar said, adding that Congress has a responsibility to fulfill past commitments to accept refugees.
"Our president needs to get the right information," he said. "He needs to go visit the refugee camps and see how they live."
Refugees have been victims themselves, he said, experiencing torture, bombings and loss of loved ones firsthand. Refugees are already carefully vetted, he said, and become contributing members of U.S. society.
"Different consular officers and the refugee-resettlement people do the best job possibly can to verify that people are truly fearing for their lives," Tanner said.
Refugee visas aren't easy to come by, he added, and if people truly were intent on causing problems for the United States, they could find an easier way to do it.
"The idea of going and trying to sneak into a refugee camp and essentially languishing there under really terrible conditions for months and months and months, and then doing it under the pretense of 'I'm going to trick people into thinking I'm a refugee when really I'm just wanting to hurt people' ccc it's ludicrous," Tanner said. "People have way better things to with their time than just hang out in really substandard living conditions."
Keeping refugees out "is not American. That is not who we are," Batar said. "Refugees need our help. We're a nation of immigrants and refugees, and we can't turn our backs on them."
Coming to the United States "saved" Batar and his family, he said. "Now I'm member of community. I'm a law-abiding citizen."
He says he's also frustrated that the United States is detaining people who have worked as interpreters for the military overseas, and he's concerned how it will affect the world's view of the nation.
"If we send them back, what message would that send? Who's going to work with our forces?" Batar said. "It's not making America safe."
Utah will continue to provide support and services to refugees who are already here, Parekh said, and will try to "quell fears" by making sure they know their rights and where to report harassment.
"There is a lot still unknown about how President Trump's executive order is going to affect refugees in the long term," she said. "We want to get all of the details and information before we act."
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Saturday issued a statement expressing "special concern for those who are fleeing physical violence, war and religious persecution."
"The Church," the statement went on to say, "urges all people and governments to cooperate fully in seeking the best solutions to meet human needs and relieve suffering."
But the unknowns have refugees worried.
Abdalla spoke to his wife three days ago, but he's worried things will be different now. He tried calling today, but no one picked up.
He's "just waiting."
mnoble@sltrib.com
Twitter: @mnoblenews

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

461 of 996 DOCUMENTS

San Jose Mercury News (California)

April 22, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'LOST' REFUGEES FIND NEW, BUT COMPLICATED, LIVES

BYLINE: ANDREW GILBERT, Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 677 words

The long-running civil war in Sudan can feel very far away from the United States. The most recent phase of the seemingly interminable conflict, pitting a fundamentalist Islamic Arab government in the north against the Christian and animist black peoples of the south, has flared and sputtered for more than two decades, taking some 2 million lives and displacing more than 4 million people.
The Dinka people were particularly devastated when village after village was raided and destroyed in the late 1980s. Thousands of adult men were killed, while women and girls were taken into slavery. But many Dinka boys, who traditionally care for cattle away from their villages, survived the massacres. A group of 20,000, many as young as 7 or 8, became known as the "Lost Boys" as they trekked through the desert, finding safety in refugee camps in Ethiopia and Kenya. 
A remarkable documentary by Bay Area filmmakers Jon Shenk and Megan Mylan brings that war home to America in a most personal way. "The Lost Boys of Sudan," which debuts tonight at the AMC Kabuki 8 Theaters as part of the San Francisco International Film Festival, follows two Dinka young men, Peter Dut and Santino Sakor, from a refugee camp in Kenya to Houston, where they are plunked down with several other Lost Boys in a rough neighborhood.
Dut and Sakor are part of a group of 4,000 Lost Boys -- including 200 young women -- given high-priority refugee status and resettled in the United States in 2001. They ended up scattered throughout the country, from Kansas City, Mo., to San Jose, from Fargo, N.D., to Little Rock, Ark.
As the Lost Boys struggle to learn English, adapt to a new culture, support themselves and seek an education, the film's title takes on a double meaning. As they make their way in a starkly unfamiliar culture, the Lost Boys' American journey reveals far more about our society than life in northeast Africa. "I see things here different," Dut says. "Everybody is busy, time is money. How am I going to get friends?"
Eschewing narration, the film captures both the mundane details of the young men's lives, like housemate disputes over cleanliness, and the extraordinary struggle they face in figuring out how and where they fit into the U.S. ethnic landscape. Prejudices are evident before the Lost Boys even depart for their new lives. At a celebration held for them at the refugee camp just before they leave, a preacher exhorts them not to "act like those people who wear the baggy jeans, who do all the bad things in America. If you failthere, we'll regret ever having this party."
The film captures the enormous pressures on these orphaned young men who depend upon each other for support, though they receive assistance from various groups.
"I come from an international development background. That's why I got into documentaries," Mylan says. "This story shows the best of who we are as Americans, and it also explores a dire human rights situation in the war in Sudan."
Mylan, a graduate of the University of California-Berkeley journalism school, and Shenk, a graduate of Stanford University's film program, hooked up with two Lost Boys in the San Jose area, Mario Bol and Abraham Thon Deng, who ended up playing a crucial role translating most of the footage.
"Meeting the guys was the clincher," Mylan says. "They were very motivated to get their story out."
Though San Jose was a major resettlement destination, with about 60 Lost Boys, Shenk and Mylan decided to focus on Houston, figuring the culture clash would be more pronounced. But according to Bol, the issues they face are much the same in Texas or California.
"The language was our problem when we got here," says Bol, who is studying political science and business law at De Anza College in Cupertino. "And transportation: We're not making enough money to buy a car. But we take care of each other. If someone's sick or loses their job, you've got to take care of him. Guys are losing jobs now because of the economy, so whoever has jobs takes care of the others."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Lost Boys of Sudan
Where: AMC Kabuki 8 Theaters, 1818 Post St., San Francisco
When: 6:30 tonight
Tickets: $10; (925) 275-9490 or www.sffs.org
Also: 1 p.m. Friday, AMC Kabuki 8 Theaters, $6; and 2 p.m. Saturday, Pacific Film Archive, 2575 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, $10, (510) 642-1124

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: S.F. INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL
The documentary captures the mundane details of the men's new lives, as well as their attempt to fit in.

Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News 
All Rights Reserved

464 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

September 9, 2015 Wednesday

U.S. vows to help Europe with refugee crisis, but unclear how

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 620 words

WASHINGTON * The Obama administration wants to help its allies across the Atlantic with an escalating migrant crisis, but is unlikely to open America's doors to vast numbers of Syrian and other refugees arriving each day by the thousands in Europe.
While Germany braces for some 800,000 asylum seekers this year, many of whom are fleeing Syria's civil war, the U.S. isn't saying if it will increase its worldwide quota for resettling refugees from 70,000. Only a fraction of those would be Syrians, who must first navigate a multi-year application process before learning if they can start a new life in the United States. 
When it comes to the current migrant challenge, the U.S. and Europe are clearly in different places. Whereas the United States is separated by an ocean from the Middle East and North Africa, Europe's place adjacent to one of the world's most volatile regions makes it an obvious destination for people fleeing war, persecution and poverty. And there are no gut-wrenching images of refugees drowning while trying to swim or smuggle their way across 3,000 miles of open sea.
Still, a spokesman for the National Security Council said Monday the U.S. was "actively considering" steps to alleviate the situation in Europe, where more than 340,000 people from the Middle East, Africa and Asia now have arrived. Beyond Syria, many are also fleeing parts of Iraq that are under the Islamic State group's control.
The spokesman, Peter Boogaard, said the steps could include "refugee resettlement" and White House press secretary Josh Earnest on Tuesday said a "range of approaches" was being studied. But as for taking more Syrians and others in, Earnest said: "There is a process for doing this."
That process, as it currently stands, is slow. Refugees wait around three years to find out if they can move to the United States, meaning Washington wouldn't be able to offer quick assistance. Throughout Syria's 4 1/2-year civil war, the U.S. has accepted only about 1,500 Syrians - a tiny percentage of the 11.6 million people who have been chased out of the country or uprooted from their homes by the conflict.
On Monday, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton called for a "concerted global effort" to assist the refugees, in an interview with The Associated Press. Washington has spearheaded such efforts previously.
After the fall of Saigon in 1975, the U.S. accepted more than a million refugees from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. In 1999, tens of thousands of mostly Muslim Kosovar Albanians were flown to the U.S., processed at a military post and ultimately resettled. During the Iraq war, more than 50,000 refugees were allowed to come under a special, expedited program for people whose religious beliefs or past work for the U.S. military put their lives at risk.
But what those situations involved and Syria's may lack is a sense of U.S. responsibility. Refugee operations in Southeast Asia followed years of U.S. warfare there, as did the decision to take in tens of thousands of Iraqis over the last decade. Many Americans will feel differently about taking large numbers of Syrians displaced by a war that the United States has tried hard to avoid.
Asked directly if the Obama administration felt responsible to share Europe's refugee burden, Earnest stressed U.S. support thus far: $4 billion provided in humanitarian aid, more than any other country, and ongoing diplomatic work to resolve Syria's conflict peacefully. The diplomacy appears nowhere near ending violence that started in 2011 with a government crackdown on political opponents, spawning an armed insurgency, and led to Islamic State extremists seizing much of the country. !@COPYRIGHT= 2015 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

468 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 3, 2015 Saturday

An Open Letter to U.S. President Barack Obama & Congressional Leaders

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 New York City: The Department Medecins Sans Frontieres has issued the following news release:

  

 The lifejacket pictured here belonged to one of more than 16,000 people rescued on the Mediterranean Sea by Doctors Without Borders/M&eacute;decins Sans Fronti&egrave;res (MSF) teams since May. This lifejacket, and the person who wore it, are symbols not only of a chaotic and dangerous world, but also of the failure of United Nations member states to meet their obligations to care for, extend safe passage to, and consider the asylum claims of those who fear for their safety from violence and oppression. 


 

 People don't abandon their homes because they want to, and they know the risks they will face on their journeys. It is out of desperation that they flee war and torture, misery, poverty, and persecution. While delivering emergency medical care across a wide range of countries and continents, Doctors Without Borders sees firsthand the horrific conditions and suffering that drive people to risk their lives for the chance of a better and safer future. In northern Jordan, for example, which only a lucky few of the Syrians wounded daily in besieged areas in and around Damascus (and elsewhere) can reach to access medical care; in northern Afghanistan, where hundreds of people injured in current fighting are pouring into our trauma center in Kunduz; in the Domeez refugee camp in northern Iraq, where food vouchers were recently cut by two-thirds; and in Kenya, where Somali refugees face the threat of violence and forcible return.

 

 We have also established projects providing health care to refugees in several European Union countries, and we have been running search and rescue operations in the Mediterranean. Our staff therefore has a unique perspective of what happens--physically, psychologically, morally--to people in need when safer countries slam their doors shut, while public policy and debate focus on economic fears, deterrence, and dehumanizing discourse about &ldquo;the other.&rdquo;

 

 This crisis has rightly shocked the world. But the harrowing scenes we have all seen are not confined to Europe and the Middle East. More than 60 million people have been uprooted by conflict and chaos around the world today. From stateless Rohingyas fleeing persecution in Myanmar and adrift on the Andaman Sea, to families driven from their homes by wars in South Sudan and Central African Republic, to people escaping violence and extortion in Central America--we are witnessing a global crisis that is fundamentally challenging the willingness of the international community to uphold its moral responsibilities to other human beings.

 

 The United States has a proud tradition of welcoming refugees, and it has apportioned billions of dollars in aid and assistance to lands around the world affected by armed conflicts. But the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, has urged the US and other attendees of the UN General Assembly in New York to do more, to play a greater, more active, and more compassionate role in the ongoing refugee and migrant crises in Europe, Africa, Asia, and North and Central America. What better backdrop than the world's largest gathering of international leaders for the United States to once more offer additional humanitarian support for people struggling to find safety, increase the number of asylum claims it approves (including for civilians wounded or tortured in conflict), and further ease cumbersome refugee application processes so the most vulnerable can easily apply?

 

 President Obama: You took steps in this direction when you addressed the UN General Assembly this past Monday. But announcing an intent to accept a certain number of refugees falls far short of truly addressing the suffering faced by millions fleeing violence and oppression.

 

 More than simply living up to obligations as a signatory to the 1967 protocol on refugees--and its own proud history of providing shelter to millions of foreign-born men, women, and children--the United States should take additional actions to ensure hope, dignity, and humanitarian assistance for those uprooted by war and strife. A courageous, committed United States can once again rise to the occasion by making its voice heard, showing resolve, and joining the European states that have opened their borders to large numbers of people in need of refuge.

 

 By taking action and showing solidarity, the United States can reaffirm its commitment to refugees the world over and can set an example to other governments that have been unable to come to terms with the challenge at hand. This could be a step towards dismantling recently erected barriers to safe passage, which only drive those forced from their homes to take ever more dangerous routes in search of sanctuary.

 

 The United States should encourage UN member states to ensure that lifesaving and basic needs are met and that humanitarian appeals are fully funded, reversing the shortfalls and cutbacks that have sadly become the norm in humanitarian crises. Beyond this week's meeting in New York, we hope America's political leaders will commit themselves to once again placing the country at the heart of efforts to find solutions to this global crisis, as it was when past generations of immigrants and refugees found shelter and opportunity in this land. The United States can make an essential difference by ensuring safe passage for people driven from their homes and by working to make the need for their harrowing journeys obsolete.

 

 Doctors Without Borders has also encouraged European leaders to do more, and we readily admit that we do not have all the answers. But we see the medical and psychological consequences of the current situation, and we must bear witness to the tragic human impact of a global system that shuts out people seeking to escape violence, poverty, and misery--people who, like many Americans, past, present, and future, seek only a safe place for themselves and their families.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

472 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The Washington Post

July 9, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

WORLD In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 916 words

 
EUROPE
Detained Cuban Doctors Flown to Sweden
STOCKHOLM--Two Cuban doctors jailed for more than a month in Zimbabwe after they sought political asylum have been released and flown to Sweden, officials and relatives said yesterday.
Leonel Cordova Rodriguez and Noris Pena Martinez, who defected from a Cuban medical mission, left Zimbabwe late Friday, said Dominik Bartsch of the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. Relatives said they arrived in Sweden.
The doctors were part of a group of 107 physicians providing health aid to Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean and had been in Zimbabwe for about a month when they sought refuge at the Canadian Embassy on May 23. 
Zimbabwean security agents arrested them the next day before a scheduled asylum hearing and put them on a flight to Havana. They got as far as Johannesburg, where they slipped a note to the pilot of their commercial flight that said they had been kidnapped. The pilot refused to take them any farther. South African authorities sent them back to Harare, where they were held without formal charge. The United States has offered them refugee status.
(From news services)
U.N. Probes Shooting of Ex-KLA Officer
PRISTINA, Yugoslavia--In a case that could have serious repercussions throughout Kosovo, U.N. police are investigating a shootout in which a former Kosovo Liberation Army commander-turned-politician was wounded.
Ramush Haradinaj was taken to the U.S. military hospital at Camp Bondsteel following Friday's shooting in the western village of Streoce. He was in stable condition, said NATO spokesman Maj. Scott Slaten.
Wildly conflicting versions of what happened to Haradinaj circulated through Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, a province of Serbia. Police and the NATO-led peacekeeping command refused to provide details.
Haradinaj's political party, the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo, said initially that he and a relative were wounded by a rocket-propelled grenade as they traveled early Friday near Streoce. However, a man allied with Haradinaj's political rivals told Associated Press Television News that Haradinaj and his followers attacked his home and that the politician was wounded in the exchange.
Friday's incident is potentially explosive for both the international mission and Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leadership. Haradinaj's party plans to contest local elections in October. Haradinaj was a leading commander in the ethnic Albanian guerrilla army during Kosovo's conflict with the Serbian government.
(Associated Press)
THE MIDDLE EAST
Iranian Police Fire on Rioters in Tehran
TEHRAN--Police fired bullets and tear gas at rioters who smashed bus windows and shouted slogans against Iran's Islamic government, snapping a truce that had lasted since the bloody suppression of a pro-democracy rally one year ago.
Screaming "death to the clerical government," the rioters burned bundles of hard-line newspapers, shattered store windows and damaged the shutters on downtown businesses. Witnesses and authorities blamed hooligans trying to stir up trouble after clashes between supporters and opponents of democratic reforms. At least a dozen people were injured, and scores were arrested.
The violence started outside Tehran University during demonstrations marking the first anniversary of a bloody police raid on a university dormitory. It overshadowed student groups' peaceful commemorations of the July 9, 1999, pre-dawn raid that left one student dead and triggered six days of the worst unrest since the 1979 Islamic revolution.
The trouble followed months of tension between pro-democracy supporters of President Mohammed Khatemi and rival hard-liners who have closed pro-reform newspapers and arrested presidential allies in a bid to roll back the immensely popular reforms.
(Associated Press)
ASIA
Police Chase Ex-Pakistani Leader's Wife
LAHORE, Pakistan--Police ended a nine-hour standoff with the wife of deposed Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif early today forcing her to drive to the family home outside the eastern Punjab capital of Lahore, police Inspector Mohammed Riaz said.
Khulsoom Sharif kept police at bay for nine hours refusing to leave her vehicle after a brief car chase through Lahore that ended at an army compound. There she remained in the vehicle with three companions while police stood guard.
Eventually she agreed to drive the vehicle to the Sharif family compound in Raiwind, 10 miles outside Lahore. It was unclear what persuaded Mrs. Sharif to end the standoff.
The drama began when police surrounded Sharif's home to prevent her from launching an anti-government march from Lahore to Peshawar, 300 miles to the northwest. The march was intended to protest the army government that overthrew her husband last October. Nawaz Sharif is serving two concurrent life terms in prison on charges of terrorism and kidnapping.
(Associated Press)
FOR THE RECORD U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said Foday Sankoh, the rebel leader being held by Sierra Leonean authorities, should face trial for war crimes despite an amnesty enshrined in a 1999 peace accord. . . . Twenty-one people were injured in the second day of the running of the bulls in Pamplona, Spain.
QUOTE OF THE DAY
"This is the first real chance they have ever given my people."
-- Oswaldo Rosas, a Peruvian Indian tribal leader who runs a computer off a generator in his thatched hut

LOAD-DATE: July 09, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

479 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 21, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE VICE PRESIDENCY;
JET LAG OR NO JET LAG, BUSH IS ON A ROLL

BYLINE: By GERALD M. BOYD

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20

 In the past two weeks, without skipping a beat, Vice President Bush mingled with starving refugees in central Africa, represented the United States at a state funeral and an inauguration, met with the new Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, underscored continued United States support in Grenada and Honduras and even lectured one of the Administration's leading antagonists, President Daniel Ortega Saavedra of Nicaragua.
 Not bad, even for Mr. Bush, who had traveled 610,000 miles on official Government business before this latest outing. In the recent pilgrimage and rush of activities, he flew 29,600 miles and spent almost two and half days in flight aboard Air Force 2.
Aides and others inside and outside the Administration say the period saw Mr. Bush at his best. Not only did he perform under settings as different as a refugee camp is from the Kremlin, but he also did so nearly flawlessly, they say. 
 
At Just the Right Time
The success comes at just the right time. Already, Mr. Bush is frequently mentioned as the front-runner in the Republican Presidential derby in 1988. And the enormous and decidedly favorable publicity of the past two weeks has not been unnoticed in political circles.
Meanwhile, what some officials see as an attempt by Mr. Bush to enhance his staff is expected to begin when the new chief of staff, Craig Fuller, takes over next month. Mr. Fuller is a highly regarded former assistant to President Reagan who has contacts within both the White House and Republican political circles.
Mr. Bush has also been playing a more visible role in setting and carrying out Administration policy. He recently delivered the Administration's attack on a ''peace proposal'' by Mr. Ortega, and on Monday, the day before the Senate voted in favor of more MX missiles, he made a major speech on that issue that garnered some attention in the press.
Today, when President Reagan decided to nominate Bill Brock as the new Labor Secretary, the only officials in on the meeting were Mr. Bush, the White House chief of staff, Donald T. Regan, and the deputy chief, Michael K. Deaver.
But his recent foreign trip was one of the Vice President's biggest successes to date. In fact, among some who accompanied him on parts of the trip, the joke was that the only mistake Mr. Bush made was not having a camera crew along to shoot footage for his 1988 political commercials.
Discussing the trip as he sat comfortably in his Senate office awaiting the critical vote on the MX, Mr. Bush said:
''I have felt very comfortable doing this. There may have been some mistakes, but I do think that things went pretty well.''
Indicative of Mr. Bush's performance was his handling of a news conference in Niamey, Niger, where he was peppered with one difficult question after another. Not only did he escape any gaffes, he even managed to end the conference by signing off in French, a popular finale in the former colony of France.
In addition to Africa, Mr. Bush went to Moscow for the funeral of Konstantin U. Chernenko and then to Grenada, Brazil and Honduras.
Mr. Bush said he regretted that ''the importance and emotional commitment'' he attached to his trip to Africa's starving regions had been ''transcended by the world event'' of the Chernenko funeral.
''Some of what we wanted to do,'' he added, ''was obscured by the understandable interest of what happened in Moscow, and then by the whole thing blending into Grenada, Brazil and Honduras, all of which I found for its own peculiar reasons, very important.''
Mr. Bush said his most significant impression of Mr. Gorbachev, whom he met with for 85 minutes, was the extent to which he reflected a generational shift in Soviet leadership. Mr. Gorbachev, he added, ''has a sparkle and he has a very disarming way about him, yet he comes across very forceful.''
But the Vice President cautioned that his observations were based on the new leader's style and not substance. ''In terms of the message, I see no radical shift in line,'' he said.
The brief meeting with Mr. Ortega, which came while both officials were in Brazil for the inauguration of a new civilian government, was unexpected. Mr. Bush has been a leading critic of Mr. Ortega's Sandinista Government, criticizing it as Marxist-Leninist and frequently waving a letter with Nicaraguan postage stamps that he says proves his point.
He said of his meeting with Mr. Ortega, which he characterized as having an element of ''show biz:''
''I said, 'You want to talk? You've already talked to the Secretary of State. We want to see some action - freedom of the church, freedom of the press, free elections. I had a chance to at least get our point of view across.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Vice President Bush

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

485 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

January 24, 2008 Thursday

'Lost Boys' aid friends from Sudan

LENGTH: 554 words

   After 13 years in Salt Lake City, Simon Kuay is familiar with the homesick faces of Sudanese refugees who fled their homeland with nothing but memories. He's a "Lost Boy" himself, separated from his family at age 11 when his village was bombed by Sudan's Islamic government.
With several thousand Sudanese immigrants now building new lives in Utah, it occurred to Simon last year that his friends needed a gathering place -- somewhere to catch up on news from their homeland and feel as though they belonged to a family again. 
So in August, the 33-year-old Columbia College business student opened K & K African Market on Redwood Road with his cousin, Both Kuang, hoping to give Lost Boys and others a small taste of what they left behind.
At Simon's market and deli, refugees can stock up on spices and lentils, wire money home to relatives and hear the latest headlines from Sudan or Ethiopia via satellite while dining on Sudanese delicacies such as rice with lamb sauce.
"Most of us don't care for Big Macs," Simon says with a smile, "but I have learned to appreciate Mexican food. Mostly, we like to cook the dishes we grew up with. It's a way to feel you are not so far away from Sudan."
On a recent Saturday, I joined Simon for a Free Lunch chat at the market while he and his older brother, James, prepared for the lunch rush. "James was like a father to me in the refugee camps," says Simon, recalling how his brother, then 16, led him across the desert to Ethiopia in 1987 when they became separated from their parents.
"We both had to grow up very quickly, but we were not alone," he says. "There were boys even younger than me without family. We took care of each other."
Simon was among the lucky boys who later learned his parents and four younger siblings had survived the bombings and fled to another part of Ethiopia. But he and James knew there was no future for them in Africa. With no money or education, their options were few. So they traveled to another refugee camp in Kenya and awaited permission to immigrate to the United States.
It took seven years, but Simon says the wait was worth it. Their Salt Lake City sponsors put them up in a small apartment and helped them to find jobs. Simon started out as a housekeeper at the Little America Hotel, then moved on to become a carpenter, a book binder, a factory worker and a deliveryman.
Even now, he works a second job as a cab driver between taking college business classes and running the market to earn extra money for his family in Africa.
"My mother does not want to move, so I dream of returning (to Africa) one day to build her a secure place to live," says Simon. "In our culture, though, money isn't as important as it is in America. Your farm, your cattle -- that's what is important. That's why it is easy to send money home. We don't need so much for ourselves."
As the clock strikes noon, Simon's friends start arriving for another afternoon of leisurely dining and catching up. "I knew many of these people in the camps -- we have been friends for 20 years," he says. "We are not related, but it doesn't matter. We're all family now." Have a story? Let's do lunch. E-mail your name, phone number and what you'd like to talk about to freelunch@desnews.com You can also write me at the Deseret Morning News, P.O. Box 1257, Salt Lake City, UT 84110.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

492 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The International Herald Tribune

May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Europe torn over Arab Spring influx; 
Politicus

BYLINE: BY JOHN VINOCUR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: LONDON 

ABSTRACT
While European leaders may not say so publicly, there is great concern over how to deal with refugees fleeing turmoil in North Africa. 

FULL TEXT
When the leaders of the Group of 8 meet next week - among them, Barack Obama, David Cameron, Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy - one of their official concerns will be supporting attempts to make democracy emerge in some kind of recognizable form from the Arab revolts in countries like Tunisia and Libya.
Unofficially, and perhaps even without public mention at the summit meeting in the French resort town of Deauville, that helping hand also means providing sufficient economic incentive to hold off a wave of Arab migration toward Europe. The potential human flood gets described by the apocalyptically minded as ''biblical.'' 
Of course, no one in Deauville would talk in those terms. But a European diplomat has acknowledged that there is more than a tacit link between sustaining the process of change in North Africa and avoiding a flow of refugees to the four European Union countries (including Italy) that make up the G-8 alongside the United States, Canada, Japan and Russia.
Sounding irritated, Antnio Guterres, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, has spoken of a ''grudging '' response from Europe, described as largely interested in ''how to keep out'' people trying to seek shelter on the other side of the Mediterranean.
But reality doesn't sit still. What is changing now is that none of the heads of the four big Western countries at Deauville in 2011 can avoid immigration as a domestic/international political issue that carries with it the emotional vote-getting-or-vote-losing volatility of war or taxes.
For example:  Mr. Obama last week traveled to near the Mexican border to insist he's cracking down hard on illegal immigration. The New York Times wrote that this was the president's fifth immigration-linked event in the last four weeks.
In parallel, signs are emerging of left-of-center politicians' acknowledgment of the legitimacy of European voters' concerns about how their lives are affected by the failed integration of many Muslim immigrants.
Here was Sgolne Royal, who ran as the French Socialist Party's candidate against Mr. Sarkozy in 2007 and seeks its 2012 presidential nomination, saying last week that no one entering France because of the Arab world's turmoil should think they're ''destined'' to remain in the country.
Why? Because Ms. Royal obviously regards that saying ''no'' on the issue means votes in an eventual party primary. She argues that exceptions must not be made to the principle of rejecting all illegal immigration. This sounds like support for efforts by some European Union member governments to tighten the open border-passage provisions of the community's internal controls.
To boot, Ms. Royal was reported telling residents of French immigrant neighborhoods, ''Stop complaining.''
In Britain, Mr. Cameron's Conservative Party, which has a hard-edged take on immigration, fared very well in local elections in England a couple of weeks ago in spite of its austerity budgets and undistinguished economic results.
The prime minister had been attacked on immigration from inside his governing coalition with the Liberal Democrats. Vince Cable, one of the party's cabinet members, chastised Mr. Cameron for his pronouncement of the death of multiculturalism in Britain and his more recent promise to sharply cut non-European immigration.
The cabinet minister accused the prime minister of ''inflaming'' Islamic extremism in the process. But the voting went badly for the Lib Dems - not the Conservatives.
Mr. Cameron explained he was fighting the idea that ''concern about immigration is somehow racist.'' Saying nothing, he argued, created room for the real bigots in extremist parties.
He spoke of immigrants who ''on occasion'' were unwilling to integrate, and who created ''discomfort and disjointedness in some neighborhoods.''
That's a long way from the language of being invaded, swamped or made to feel an alien in your own country. But Mr. Cameron insisted at the same time that it would be ''untruthful'' and ''unfair'' not to address a real problem.
A reflexive equation linking concern about immigration with reactionary thinking has been dulled in Europe, but not without embarrassment. In a clumsy attempt to cozy up to its wavering white working-class constituency, the German Social Democratic Party leadership voted last month not to expel  Thilo Sarrazin, a party member who wrote a best seller, larded with genetics-based arguments, designating Muslim immigrants as a drag on German society.
Yet for parts of the European left, a serious question exists about a way to move closer to the immigration themes it once rejected as reflecting bigotry.
In France, how could the Socialist Party not consider them in a presidential campaign landscape where both Nicolas Sarkozy and Marine Le Pen, the head of the extreme right National Front, talk tough about immigration's downsides?
Recent polling by Harris Interactive provides the answer: 76 percent of the French (including 62 percent of left-wing voters) think that immigrants don't make sufficient effort to integrate into French society. Speaking for the polling group, J.D. Levy told a French reporter that while the events of the Arab Spring were presented positively by the media, ''most people were mainly worried'' that they would mean ''even more potential immigrants.''
A strategy paper on how to win in 2012 drawn up by supporters of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the strongest Socialist Party candidate before his arrest on sexual assault charges in New York, suggests a successful campaign must include a focus on the value of work and the secular character of French society, while emphasizing citizens' duties - a kind of nudge-nudge message to voters that the party understands their worries about Muslim immigration.
To leap ahead of the nudge and wink stage, Gaullist party sources have told me that Mr. Sarkozy no longer wants to talk of immigrants' integration but promote their ''assimilation.''
That's always been a loaded word. Currently, it is used by Islamists in Britain to paint Mr. Cameron's rejection of multiculturalism as an assimilation plan robbing Muslim immigrants of their Islamic identity.
Surely, at Deauville there will be no desire on the part of the summiteers to wade into such a contentious bog.
But there is the real likelihood that the summit meeting plays a role, even unspoken, in accompanying a palpable change in the politics and discussion of immigration and its intensifying impact.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

494 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 12, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Opposes Plan for U.N. Force in Rwanda

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS,   Special to The New York Times 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 11

As rebel forces of the Rwanda Patriotic Front pressed their attack today against the capital, Kigali, the United States criticized a new United Nations plan to send some 5,500 soldiers into the heart of the Rwandan civil war to protect refugees and assist relief workers, saying it is more than the organization can handle.
Instead America's representative at the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright, told the Security Council the United Nations should explore the possibility of sending an international force to establish a "protection zone" along parts of the Rwandan border where refugees could gather and be cared for. 
 The United Nations plan, submitted by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on Tuesday, envisages sending troops straight into Kigali, where fierce fighting was reported to be continuing today, with the objective of securing the airport and reinforcing the United Nations' small military headquarters there before fanning out through the war-torn country to protect refugees and aid workers.
But in an example of the cautious mood that has descended on the United Nations these days, the Secretary General also made clear that the troops would not be authorized to use force to stop the ethnic massacres that are estimated to have cost some 200,000 lives so far.
While not excluding any course of action, Ms. Albright said it remains unclear whether African countries are ready or able to send forces for such a dangerous and complicated mission at the epicenter of a raging civil war.
She argued that a protected zone for refugees would be easier to organize and that African countries are more likely to contribute forces to it.  Ms. Albright said the United States wants to explore this approach and might be ready to provide money, air transport and possibly some military equipment.
The Security Council will try to work out a compromise between these two approaches and calls for more forceful action from third world members later this week, diplomats said after the meeting today.
In his proposal, the Secretary General said some 1.2 million Rwandans are now displaced inside the country and more than 300,000 have taken refuge abroad, chiefly in neighboring Tanzania, Uganda, Zaire and Burundi. Moreover, some 80,000 refugees have fled recent fighting in Burundi.
He suggested the Security Council send in a force of 5,500 troops that would include five infantry battalions, with a limited mandate "to support displaced persons and other groups in Rwanda who have been affected by hostilities and to assist in the provision of assistance by humanitarian agencies."
This falls short of the stronger intervention African and other third world members of the Council say they favor although there is little chance they will get their way.
The limited operation the Secretary General proposed as well as America's warning that even this may be more than the United Nations can handle, reflects a growing recognition of the difficulties and dangers of intervening in civil wars, brought home to the organization by its troubled experiences in Somalia and the former Yugoslavia.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Rwanda showing location of Kigali.

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

498 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 24, 2010 Friday  
Regional Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 532 words

Pius D. Bannis is the Haiti field office director for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. After the devastating earthquake in January , Bannis helped hundreds of Haitian orphans find safety in the United States with new families already in the adoption process. Before going to Haiti in 2008, he also served as an asylum and refugee officer. Bannis was just named the 2010 Service to America Medals Federal Employee of the Year. 
What attracted you to public service?
I like being with and helping people. I am totally averse to sitting at a desk all day writing policy memos and figuring out the best regulation. I like dealing directly with the public. One of my greatest joys was being in Africa talking to a family in a refugee camp, hearing their story and, after interviewing them, saying, "I think you have been persecuted, and I am going to grant you a refugee status in the United States. Get ready to travel." When you see the sparkle in that person's eye, you realize you have done something that really touches somebody's life.
How should leaders prepare for a crisis or the unexpected?
One thing I know for sure is that you can never prepare fully for a catastrophe like this. At work, we had an emergency committee, and when the earthquake happened, the book went through the window. It was a thick book that said what each and every person was supposed to do in case we had such an emergency. Members of the committee had died in their homes. We realized maybe we could not find the people who were supposed to be wardens. Some of them were dead or injured, and we could not follow that script.
Prepare as much as you can and have all the meetings and committees set up. But in the end, there will be chaos, and controlling the chaos is what will save the day. If you can't control the chaos, then you will have total disarray.
What did you learn about collaborating during times of crisis?
I have never seen such dedicated public servants from every government agency working so flawlessly together. Everybody became involved. In a situation like this, you can't be playing tough and saying, "This is my territory, and only I can do that." Everybody does everything. I had a Secret Service guy answering the phone for me; I had another reading e-mails. I had a guy from diplomatic security helping me transport the kids to the airport. Some of them were driving. That is not their job, but they came together in the emergency. They were not going to let a kid die in the embassy compound.
I think we learned a lot from Katrina and the situations where people simply did not come together and do what they had to do. I think that the Haiti situation was quite different - people knew that everybody's eyes were focused on what they were doing.
How would you describe your leadership approach in the aftermath of the earthquake?
I am a command and control type. In that situation, I was. But if there is nothing critical going on, I am more collaborative and will ask for ideas. I believe that there is a time when you have to be command and control. You have to act with authority and make people do what you believe is the right thing for the time . . . for the right purpose.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

499 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

December 16, 2017 Saturday

LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Trump's 'America Alone' migration policy is counterproductive

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Editorials

LENGTH: 456 words

Recently, the Trump administration announced it was withdrawing from the United Nations Global Compact on Migration and Refugees. UN Ambassador Nikki Haley cited "numerous provisions that are inconsistent with U.S. immigration and refugee policies and the Trump administration's immigration principles," adding that "our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by Americans and Americans alone." 
This is unfortunate. It is estimated that there will be upwards of 2 billion refugees worldwide just from the effects of climate change, without counting those who are fleeing war, conflict and ethnic cleansing.
While the Trump administration may wrongly believe that two oceans will serve as an effective "wall" against the pressure of displaced humanity, clearly this will not work for our European allies, nor even for Australia. By withdrawing from the migration agreement, the administration is pursuing not an "America First" policy, but is creating an "America Alone" reality.
Nearly 30 percent of Lowell's population is from countries of Southeast Asia, particularly those along the Mekong River and its delta. These countries -- Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand -- are among those which will be the most dramatically affected by climate change in the world. The UN Panel on Climate Change estimates 10 million refugees from Vietnam alone.
Lowell is also home to a substantial population from countries of sub-Saharan Africa; again, one of the areas that will see the greatest impacts of climate change.
So we can expect climate change to directly affect the lives and families of thousands of Lowell residents in the coming near future.
Regardless of what the administration may hope, neither the Atlantic nor Pacific oceans can or should isolate us from the suffering. As Americans of every background and ethnicity, and particularly as Lowellians, it is our common heritage to welcome the immigrant and the refugee whether they are fleeing war, famine, slavery or climate change. It's who we are. By withdrawing from the UN Global Compact, the U.S. is denying itself the very international mechanisms needed to both alleviate the suffering of our fellow human beings and to implement some measure of control over the process.
In the meantime, the Lowell City Council and the state of Massachusetts must take climate change seriously, and act with all expediency to reduce the use of fossil fuels that are worsening climate change daily.
Climate change is not an abstraction; its effects are impacting the most vulnerable populations of the Mekong and others now, today, and it will only get worse. The families of those people live here in Lowell. It is our responsibility to help them in every way we can.
STEPHEN MALAGODI
Lowell

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

500 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

May 5, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 644 words

 
 
NORTH AMERICA
 
MEXICO
 
Operative in drug mob is arrested, police say
Dozens of police and soldiers arrested a man described as the second in command of the violent Arellano-Felix drug mob after a shootout in Baja California, prosecutors said Thursday.
The arrest Wednesday of Ismael Higuera Guerrero marks the beginning of the end for the Tijuana-based drug gang, said Mexico's top anti-drug prosecutor, Mariano Herran Salvatti.
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration called the arrest "a major victory for both Mexican and U.S. law enforcement" and called Higuera Guerrero "the most visible member" of the gang, after brothers Ramon and Benjamin Arellano Felix dropped out of sight to avoid arrest. 
 
AFRICA
 
BURUNDI
 
Rebels kill 15 in raid at night, officials say
Burundian rebels believed to operate from refugee camps in neighboring Tanzania have killed 15 people in a nighttime raid near a frontier town, authorities said Thursday.
In the attack Tuesday on Kinyinya, the Hutu rebels also wounded an undetermined number of people and burned several houses, said Gabriel Gunungu, the governor of southern Makamba province.
The motivation for the raid on Kinyinya, 68 miles southeast of the capital Bujumbura, was not known, but the rebels often carry out reprisals against Hutu civilians suspected of providing food or information to government forces.
 
CONGO
 
Government will assist U.N. observer force
Congo's government agreed Thursday to cooperate with U.N. plans to deploy a 5,500-member observer force to monitor a shaky cease-fire in this war-battered central African nation.
The deal was struck during a rare visit by seven U.N. Security Council members to the capital, Kinshasa. The mission's leader, U.S. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, said he was cautiously optimistic about the accord but warned that this week's killings and kidnappings of U.N. staff in Sierra Leone could affect the Congo plans.
Under the vaguely worded Status of Forces Agreement, Congo's government agreed to help ensure the safety and free movement of the U.N. observers. In the past, Congo has denied U.N. monitors permission to travel to some battlefronts and mining regions. Congo also has refused to guarantee the welfare of U.N. staff.
 
ASIA
 
SRI LANKA
 
Nation resumes relations with Israel after 30 years
Sri Lanka resumed diplomatic relations with Israel after 30 years on Thursday, a move that could help the island nation acquire arms for its war against separatist rebels. In Tel Aviv, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy welcomed the announcement and said a delegation of Sri Lankan officials would travel to Israel to discuss the renewed relations.
State-run media said it appeared Sri Lanka wants to buy weapons from Israel, a major arms producer. The Sri Lankan army is in dire need of weapons to contain the Tamil Tiger rebels, who are fighting to establish a separate homeland. Sri Lanka severed diplomatic ties in 1970 after its Muslim population objected to Israel's refusal to vacate occupied Arab territories.
 
INDONESIA
 
Remote areas report casualties from quake
The death toll from a powerful earthquake that struck in central Indonesia increased to nine Friday as remote areas began reporting casualties, officials said.
The 6.5-magnitude quake hit at 11:21 a.m. Thursday, damaging hundreds of homes and buildings along a wide stretch of eastern Sulawesi and the islands of Peleng and Banggai, according to the Antara news agency.
Officials said the death toll probably would rise as reports from coastal villages affected by a small tidal wave caused by the quake begin to come in.
Sevatius Suyitno, chief of the Geophysics Agency in Luwuk, a town on the eastern coast of central Sulawesi, said 80 percent of the buildings on Banggai were damaged.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

501 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 21, 2018 Sunday  
Late Edition - Final

Leaving Africa, and Living in Limbo

BYLINE: By MATT KATZ. 
Matt Katz (@mattkatz00) is a reporter for WNYC. This article is a collaboration with PBS NewsHour Weekend and the ''Chasing the Dream'' initiative focusing on poverty and economic opportunity in America.

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2688 words

Andre Twendele played dead through the early morning, until the sun was over the forest canopy and the security forces were far enough away.
It was November 2005. He was a law student at the University of Lubumbashi in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a massive country at the heart of sub-Saharan Africa best known to Americans for its brutal war crimes and its wealth of minerals harvested for iPhones. President Joseph Kabila was running the nation in autocratic fashion, overseeing a perpetual state of regional and civil war, just as he is today. Mr. Twendele, young and politically minded, had helped lead a student protest against him. 
  Mr. Twendele belonged to the Union for Social Democracy and Progress, a party known for its nonviolence. For this rally, he was head of security. That put him at the front of the line when, according to Mr. Twendele, Mr. Kabila's men arrived and began beating and arresting protesters. In jail, Mr. Twendele befriended one of the guards, and so when the students were marched into the forest and lined up to be executed, the guard made sure Mr. Twendele was last. The first seven were killed. Then it was his turn. The guard pretended to shoot him. He fell and played dead. 
  When the guards left, ''I tried to touch all of my friends there,'' Mr. Twendele remembered. ''My friends, they died in my presence,'' he said. ''It's a long time ago but I have that image, I remember everything. I have that picture in my head.''
  Mr. Twendele was 23 years old. A dozen years later, we sat next to each other on a park bench near the apartment in Elizabeth, N.J., that he shares with two other refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo. It was an early spring afternoon, and a few joggers passed by, but he looked straight ahead as he told his story.
  ''So I start a new life,'' he said. ''And it was not easy.''
  Elizabeth is an industrial city just across from Staten Island that has long been a critical portal for immigrants escaping persecution and searching for opportunity.
  Germans and Irish came in the 19th century; European Jews and then Cubans followed in the 20th. Since 2015, Elizabeth has settled 646 refugees -- about half from Syria, and 95 from Congo. The city accepts more refugees than anywhere else in New Jersey.
  Chris Bollwage, the seven-term mayor, traces his own history back 202 years to German immigrants. ''The city of Elizabeth has been a melting pot, but it hasn't been a melting pot for the last 25 years -- it's been a melting pot since the Constitution,'' Mr. Bollwage said. Its residents are said to come from about 50 countries and speak 37 languages.
  Mr. Twendele's journey -- 11 years in a refugee camp, then one lucky application for a visa to the United States -- roughly traces the experiences of the three million other refugees admitted into the country since 1975. But that path is now narrowing as President Trump enacts the most severe curtailment of America's refugee program in a generation.
  Last September Mr. Trump set the annual cap for refugee admissions at 45,000, less than half of the amount that President Obama accepted and the lowest by any president since the Refugee Act of 1980.
  Mr. Twendele was fortunate to get to the U.S. before new refugee restrictions went into place. But he now lives with a greater burden: Lisette Lukoji, a woman he met and married in the refugee camp, is still stuck in southeastern Africa.
  As a teenager, Lisette Lukoji had a daughter, Lorette, with a boyfriend who went to war and never returned. She enrolled in school to become a seamstress, raising Lorette and living at her uncle's house in Lubumbashi. That's where they came for her. She was 19.
  Ms. Lukoji told me her story as we sat side by side on another bench -- this one in the main room of her home at the Dzaleka Refugee Camp in Malawi, a landlocked sliver of a country that borders Tanzania, Mozambique and Zambia. The walls were made of mud, sticks and plastic served as a roof, and an old sweatshirt was used as the doormat.
  ''It was around 6 or 7 p.m.,'' Ms. Lukoji remembered of the day she was arrested. ''I was preparing food in the kitchen. I saw people enter that weren't wearing uniforms.''
  Whether they were militia or military or police, she doesn't know. She recalls her uncle was aligned with Paul Joseph Mukungubila, a professed Christian prophet and politician who had run against President Kabila in 2006. As part of an operation to round up Mr. Mukungubila's supporters, Ms. Lukoji said, her entire family was detained and imprisoned in separate cells. Lorette was stripped away from her.
  ''To this day, I don't know where she is,'' Ms. Lukoji said. If alive, she's 6 years old.
  One night in jail three soldiers came to Ms. Lukoji's cell. She said they raped her, all three of them. Then they handed her 5,000 Congolese francs, about $3.50, and told her to leave.
  ''I walked, I don't know how to explain for how long, but I walked for a long time,'' Ms. Lukoji said. She had neither shoes nor identification. She ended up in a dusty town bordering Zambia. For days, she lived on the streets, using the little money she had to buy beignets, mixing the leftover sugar with water for sustenance.
  A Tanzanian truck driver stopped to help her. He smuggled her into Zambia, where she got on a bus to Malawi, which has hosted refugees for decades despite being one of the poorest nations on the continent. Ms. Lukoji walked into Dzaleka barefoot. It took her two weeks to get a pair of shoes, she said. She had to find someone to take her in, or build her own earthen house. She had to collect her own food.
  ''I realized that life would be very complicated there,'' she said. ''Very complicated, really.''
  Dzaleka Refugee Camp was built as a prison camp for about 10,000 people. But for more than 20 years it has been home to the displaced from Congo, Rwanda, Burundi and elsewhere, with a population that now exceeds 32,000.
  The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said that it receives less than a third of the $18 million it needs to care for Malawi's refugees. Charcoal is hard to come by, so children ask strangers for empty water bottles, which can then be burned and used to cook food. Refugees build their own homes, which lack indoor plumbing, and the camp's one medical clinic mostly serves the neighboring villagers.
  Yet there's life in Dzaleka. People gossip, argue and dance. There are churches, schools and hair salons. Refugees may be forbidden by the Malawian government from working, but an underground economy is driven by barter and cash sent from relatives abroad. Ms. Lukoji sells clothes that she makes, and Mr. Twendele tutored refugees in his native French and, later, English. He became fluent while living in the camp because he won admission to a competitive college equivalency program there. Six days a week for three years he took online classes through Regis University in Colorado, earning a near 4.0 G.P.A. and a degree in liberal studies.
  Some months after he graduated, Mr. Twendele fell in love. He remembers the day well: He was playing Scrabble, in French, at a friend's house when he first caught a glimpse of Ms. Lukoji.
  ''That girl!'' Mr. Twendele thought. ''I want to talk to her. I don't know where to start, how can I talk to her?''
  They were both devout Christians from the Luba ethnic group. At first, Ms. Lukoji refused to give Mr. Twendele her phone number. ''I didn't even know him!'' she said.
  Some refugees get cellphones through charities, relatives in the West or the underground market. When Mr. Twendele finally got her number and called, she hung up on him. Not interested.
  But Mr. Twendele, handsome with a shaved head, was determined.
  ''He said, 'Even if you refuse, I am the one marrying you, there is no one besides me,''' Ms. Lukoji said. ''That even if I hung up I would be the one he marries and the father of my children.''
  Ms. Lukoji, short with a bright smile, was astounded at his persistence. Eventually she warmed to him and they began dating. They'd go for walks together, maybe buying sweet drinks and stopping to watch soccer games on the big dirt field near the camp's entrance.
  And in May 2015, they married, right there in the camp. Their church helped pay for his suit. She borrowed a dress. There was a big spread of food: beans, rice, sweet potatoes, chicken, fish, salad.
  ''It was like a dream,'' Mr. Twendele said. ''She was very happy that day.''
  From the beginning, they both knew they would have to leave the camp, so Mr. Twendele applied to the U.N.H.C.R. to resettle in a new country.
  On Dec. 19, 2012 -- he remembers the date -- Mr. Twendele had his first interview with a refugee agency representative at the camp. More interviews followed, including two with officials from the Department of Homeland Security. In each, Mr. Twendele told his story of escape and provided biographical information. Refugee officers ran his name against terrorist watch lists. They took his photograph and his fingerprints.
  Finally, on Oct. 22, 2016, nearly four years after the first interview, Mr. Twendele received the news he had waited so long to hear: He was headed to the United States.
  But it was in the middle of this process that he had met Ms. Lukoji, and he opted not to change his application midstream to take his marriage into account. He assumed, correctly, that it would delay the process. He also assumed, incorrectly, that she could join him in six months or so.
  ''I was crying like a baby,'' said Mr. Twendele. ''She told me: 'Just go. I know that you are my husband, and you love me, and will do your best to help me so I can join you there in the U.S.A.'''
  The next day, Mr. Twendele landed at Kennedy International Airport, thrilled by the flight across the ocean. ''You stay in one place -- you are not moving, but the airplane is going,'' he said. ''I didn't understand that technology.''
  The International Rescue Committee arranged to have Mr. Twendele picked up and taken to an apartment complex in Elizabeth filled with refugees from Africa, the Middle East and South America. He would be sharing a room with two Congolese men in a brick building on the same street where Jared Kushner's grandparents moved after fleeing the Holocaust.
  On the day Mr. Twendele moved in, Mr. Trump was campaigning in North Carolina, attacking Hillary Clinton and her stance on immigration. ''She wants, in her words, to have totally open borders, which would destroy America's middle class,'' Trump said. He called refugees ''Trojan horses.'' Thirteen days later, he was elected president.
  The job of resettling new Americans falls on designated nonprofit agencies like the International Rescue Committee, which the State Department pays $2,125 per refugee to cover resettlement expenses, like a security deposit for an apartment and a few days of food in the refrigerator, as well as administrative costs.
  The I.R.C. also holds classes to familiarize refugees with the complexities of New Jersey Transit and the welfare system. And it connects refugees with employers, which is exactly how Mr. Twendele got an overnight job at Elizabeth's True World Foods, a sprawling, bone-cold seafood distributor that abuts the New Jersey Turnpike at Exit 13A. He earns $11 an hour alongside immigrants from the Philippines, Liberia, Nigeria and Congo, cutting and packaging fish from all over the world that becomes sushi at high-end restaurants like Nobu in Manhattan. Bundled up in ski pants and three jackets, Mr. Twendele handles fish that he won't eat -- though he loves seafood, he has yet to try sushi.
  By about 4 a.m., in the middle of his shift, Mr. Twendele was in the break room. He was on his phone, trying to reach his wife on WhatsApp, which allows free international calls. He used his first True World Food paychecks to buy his wife a new phone. They speak multiple times a day, and for hours at a time on the weekends.
  ''When I speak to him, I feel like he is here, even though he is not here,'' Ms. Lukoji said from the bench in the refugee camp. She had just spoken with Mr. Twendele and was still smiling. ''He loves me, and he tells me this on the phone. Like today he said, 'I love you, I adore you, you are the mother of my children.'''
  Nearly 50,000 Congolese refugees have resettled in the United States since 2010. More than 2,500 moved to New York, most ending up in Buffalo and Syracuse. Almost all Congolese refugees in New Jersey are in Elizabeth, the second largest refugee group behind Syrians, and through word of mouth an unofficial Congolese community group has sprung up.
  Last July 1, I joined Mr. Twendele at the group's Congolese Independence Day party in a Korean church above a Dollar Store in downtown Elizabeth. Mr. Twendele marked his country's 1960 victory over the Belgian colonial rulers by eating traditional African fufu with new friends who spoke his language. They prayed, danced and drank (Sprite for Mr. Twendele; Heineken for his roommates).
  At the party, Mr. Twendele opened his cellphone. His wife had sent a photo. Over the image, using the English version of his first name, Ms. Lukoji wrote: ''I love my husband Andrew forever.''
  Elizabeth, with its Colombian bakeries and kosher restaurants, is a model for those who believe that the United States should be a haven during what is now considered the worst refugee crisis since World War II -- there are more than 22 million people designated as refugees worldwide, with a notable spike in the last five years.
  But Elizabeth is also home to a privately run immigrant detention center, filled with people accused of overstaying their visas or smuggling themselves over the Mexican border. Elizabeth may be their last stop before deportation.
  And near the city's train station sits a garbage can that serves as a reminder of the risk of terrorist attacks by disaffected immigrants. In September 2016, a month before Mr. Twendele arrived, prosecutors say an Afghanistan-born man named Ahmad Khan Rahami stashed six pipe bombs in a garbage can. Mr. Rahami was a naturalized American citizen who lived above his father's First American Fried Chicken restaurant in Elizabeth. The Elizabeth bombs were found before they went off, but Mr. Rahami is now awaiting sentencing for the other explosives he planted that weekend that actually blew up -- in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood, injuring 31.
  Mr. Trump, who was the Republican nominee for president then, blamed the attacks on the United States' ''extremely open immigration system, which fails to properly vet and screen the individuals and families coming into our country.'' And yet since the current vetting system was put into place in 1980, no refugee has committed a deadly terrorist attack on American soil.
  Mr. Trump's changes to the refugee program have directly affected Ms. Lukoji. His administration suspended the visa program for so-called following-to-join refugees, which was her fastest path to reuniting with her husband. A federal judge has since lifted the suspension, but more stringent security requirements for the visa are expected, which could further delay her application.
  Ms. Lukoji does have another option. Mr. Twendele has filed an ''affidavit of relationship'' to certify their marriage and initiate the vetting process, but his application has yet to be reviewed, according to advocates working on the case.
  Ms. Lukoji longs to leave not just to reunite with her husband; her health depends on it, too. She has blocked fallopian tubes, a painful condition that has left her infertile, according to a gynecologist whom she sees in Lilongwe, Malawi's capital. Their hopes for children -- Mr. Twendele wants as many as eight -- now rests in the United States, with in vitro fertilization.
  He is 35. She is 26. He calls this ''the beginning of life.''
  One day in his apartment, Mr. Twendele expressed confidence, as he often does, in the future.
  ''I know that one day I will be with myself, my wife, my family -- comfortable,'' he said.
  Not long after, his phone buzzed. The name popped up: Mon cheri, my sweetheart.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/19/nyregion/refugee-elizabeth-congo-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andre Twendele, 35, a refugee from the Democratic Republic of Congo, at work at True World Foods in Elizabeth, N.J., where he packs fish. He moved to the United States in 2016. His wife is in a refugee camp in Malawi, facing immigration limits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD FOR WNYC NEWS) (MB1)
Andre Twendele, top, in his apartment in Elizabeth, N.J., watching soccer with Jean-Paul and Dianna Funzule, neighbors who are fellow Congolese refugees. A wedding picture of Mr. Twendele and his wife, Lisette Lukoji, who remains at Dzaleka Refugee Camp in Malawi, above. He is confident they will be reunited someday despite President Trump's actions to sharply curtain America's refugee program. Below, Mr. Twendele attended Christmas Eve services at the Union Baptist Church in Elizabeth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD FOR WNYC NEWS
 ALESSANDRO PAVONE/PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND) (MB6)       

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company

503 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 20, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Bluffing Haiti's Bullies

William Raspberry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 771 words

"A bully's only question is, 'Will you kick my butt?' Not 'Can you?' or 'Should you?' but 'Will you?' "
That's Randall Robinson, explaining why the United States may be forced to invade Haiti or else resign itself to a series of awful consequences: abandoning that country's abortive attempt at democracy, leaving in control the military thugs who now run the place and facing the prospect of vast new waves of Haitian boat people washing up on American shores.
President Clinton, according to Robinson's view, has done what every schoolyard kid knows you can't do with a bully. He's made a series of empty threats.
Not just the limited sanctions that, too late, had to be intensified, not just the rhetoric-only support for democracy in the hemisphere, but almost every important move of the Clinton administration has sounded very much like, "Okay, I'm warning you, and I really mean it this time." 
Whatever weight the warnings carried for Haiti's rulers evaporated last October when the USS Harlan County, a landing craft with 218 American and Canadian troops aboard, was frightened away (so it must have seemed in Port-au-Prince) by a handful of thugs. That's not to say that this contingent of technicians should have forced its way ashore -- only that it should have been ordered to back off to wait for reinforcements. Turning tail, as the Harlan County did, could only embolden the forces of Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, commander of the Haitian armed forces, and make Clinton look weak and irresolute.
For Robinson, whose organization, TransAfrica, has been pushing U.S. Haiti policy, the recent -- thus far unpunished -- expulsion of U.N. human rights observers was "Harlan County II."
Any new threats now will be seen as simply more talk, he said this week. And like other observers, he's coming to believe that military action is the only alternative to doing nothing at all -- and less damaging to U.S. interests.
For a time he thought sanctions might have an effect. "Unfortunately, sanctions to be effective have to be all-out sanctions," he said. "Clinton tried to start small and then ratchet-up the sanctions, and all that did was give the military government time to hunker down. In any case, sanctions can weaken but they cannot deliver the final blow. The reason sanctions worked in South Africa is that de Klerk cared about what happened to his country. The generals don't care what happens to Haiti."
Worse from a policy point of view, sanctions exacerbate the refugee crisis -- the very thing that makes Haiti's situation a problem in the United States. "There's no way sanctions could deliver before the end of year," says Robinson, "and we can't tolerate the refugee situation that long."
Like growing numbers of critics of the Clinton administration, Robinson ticks off the list of false starts and lost opportunities and adds this one:
"As little as six months to a year ago, the main problem in Haiti could have been dealt with by the [military] removal of a few people. But the cancer has metastasized."
Still, he says, it should be possible to put together a list of 200 to 250 people who, if they were rendered harmless, would allow you to deal with the situation. But then the resulting vacuum would, willy-nilly, involve the United States in rebuilding the country, restoring its infrastructure and creating the institutions that could sustain the next attempt at democracy.
Are America's interests in Haiti worth that sort of investment?
Robinson says yes, for two reasons. The first and most obvious is that as long as its political and economic problems remain unresolved, Haiti will be a refugee factory, with practically all of its human output bound for America. "Remember, all the excitement so far has been over a few dozen -- at most a few hundred -- refugees at a time," Robinson says. "Remember, though: Haiti's population is more than five million."
But there is, he said, another U.S. interest -- and responsibility -- in Haiti.
"Haiti is not in the condition it's in because it's black, as some people seem to think, but because of what happened 200 years ago, after it had the only successful slave revolt in the history of the hemisphere. What was the American response? An embargo, imposed by Thomas Jefferson and lasting 65 years, because America couldn't tolerate the implication of a successful slave revolt.
"Haiti thus started out behind the 8 ball and was kept there -- with our complicity -- while the rest of the Caribbean got off to a better start. Don't you think that gives us a moral interest in helping the Haitian people set things right?"

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

505 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

February 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Character Test

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:
"The Next President's Duty to Intervene" (Op-Ed, Feb. 13), by Michael Ignatieff, clearly conveys the tug-of-war between national interests and values. Americans want a president with a strong moral character and a conviction to lead by our values, not merely our national interests. But global stability has become both a national interest and an American value, so a president must respond to the threat of genocide or "ethnic cleansing" not only in Europe but also in Africa, Asia and the Americas. 
 Human rights issues never win presidential campaigns, but character will surely be important in this one. Let us keep prodding candidates to clarify their plan of action or inaction in situations of genocide. Let them reveal their character and convictions.
 
ANTHONY J. KOZLOWSKI
Minneapolis, Feb. 14, 2000
 
The writer is president of the American Refugee Committee.  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company

506 of 996 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

May 24, 2015 Sunday

The Globalist Quiz

BYLINE: TheGlobalist.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words

THE GLOBALIST QUIZ
Seeking Sanctuary
The weekly quiz is provided by the Globalist, a daily online feature service that covers issues and trends in globalization. The nonpartisan organization provides commercial services and nonprofit educational features.
QUESTION
The year 2014 was a particularly big time for global refugees. Outright civil war in countries such as Syria and Libya has spurred hundreds of thousands of civilians to make risky journeys to safer countries. We wonder: Which industrialized country received the most asylum seekers in 2014?
ANSWER 
A. United States
B. Turkey
C. Sweden
D. Germany
A.
United States is not correct.
In 2014, more than 121,000 people entered the U.S. asylum petition process, making it the second-highest recipient country for a second year in a row, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The year also brought an increase of nearly 37,000 applications over 2013. From 2005 through 2012, the U.S. was the leading recipient of asylum petitions in the industrialized world. In 2014, 866,000 people altogether applied for asylum across 44 industrialized nations. The U.S. received 14 percent of these applications. After petitioners for asylum arrive in a country, they must be able to prove they would face persecution or be killed if they returned home. This requirement differentiates them from people fleeing hardship or seeking better economic prospects. Many of the more than 350,000 formally recognized refugees and asylum seekers in the U.S. are fleeing violence or political persecution in Africa, the Middle East or Latin America. In 2014, 42 percent of new applicants had fled gang and cartel violence in Mexico and Central America.
B.
Turkey is not correct.
In 2014, Turkey became the third-highest recipient of asylum claims, with nearly 88,000 people filing new petitions. This represented a doubling of the 43,000 people who sought asylum in Turkey in 2013. This surge was primarily a result of the brutal civil war in neighboring Syria. It escalated sharply in 2014, as the self-styled Islamic State captured much of northern Iraq and began moving on Kurdish communities along Turkey's borders. Even though Turkey's government has publicly tried to remain welcoming to the civilians escaping the war, the events of 2014 began to test that resolve. A century ago, there were also significant civilian population movements occurring in the region. Then, amid World War I, the Ottoman Empire was disintegrating under Allied invasion and rebellions by Armenian, Arab and Kurdish populations.
C.
Sweden is not correct.
In 2014, the number of new asylum seekers in Sweden rose from 54,000 in 2013 to more than 75,000, making it the fourth-largest host country in the industrialized world. It was Sweden's biggest year for asylum claims since it received 84,000 applications in 1992 as Yugoslavia collapsed. Much of the recent increase followed the Swedish government's September 2013 decision to announce blanket asylum and permanent refugee status to any Syrian who wished to apply as a result of threats from the civil war. The unprecedented move has contributed to Sweden having more asylum seekers per capita than any other nation over the past five years. The presence of more than 100,000 refugees in this small European Union member country has become increasingly controversial. This likely helped propel the anti-immigration Sweden Democrats party to become the third-largest in Sweden's parliament.
D.
Germany is correct.
Germany received more than 173,000 new petitions for asylum in 2014, making it the leading recipient in the world in absolute numbers. Germany's asylum requests in 2014 were 58 percent higher than in 2013. The country has also accepted more than 200,000 refugees. In fact, Germany provides two-thirds of all admission and resettlement spots available in Europe. However, among major asylum application recipients, Sweden received the highest number relative to its national population, at 78 per 10,000. Germany stood at about 21 per 10,000, Turkey at about 12 per 10,000 and the United States at fewer than 4 applicants per 10,000. Germany's openness to refugees has, as in Sweden, sparked domestic protests at home. In part, Germany's high resettlement numbers are meant to ease pressure mainly in Greece and Italy -- the EU countries directly bearing most of the brunt of desperate migrants landing on their Mediterranean coasts.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

509 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 27, 2017 Friday

Trump's Executive Order Will Amount to a Ban on Muslims from the U.S.

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Institute for Policy Studies has issued the following news release:

  

 Today the White House is expected to issue an executive order calling for drastic changes to U.S. refugee, immigration, and visa policies. 


 

 This is the response from Institute for Policy Studies Middle East expert Phyllis Bennis, who has been analyzing U.S. Middle East and foreign policy for more than 40 years:

 

 "This will amount to an executive order to ban Muslims from the United States, demonizing people from Muslim-majority countries across the Middle East/North Africa. It is no accident that of the seven countries identified, the U.S.

 

     is at war in five (Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Libya and Somalia),

     has troops deployed and military bases in another (Sudan), and

     imposes harsh sanctions and frequent threats against the last (Iran).

 

 These are all policies that fuel refugee flows in the first place. We are banning refugees from wars that we started.

 

 If we are serious about taking care of refugees and ending the conditions that give rise to their plight, we must protect and welcome far more of the 65 million people currently displaced in the world. Simultaneously, we must work to end the wars that create refugees.

 

 The order will also call for the Pentagon to create a "safe zone in Syria and in the region." Almost inevitably, that means launching more airstrikes on the country -- a recipe for more war and inevitably more refugees.

 

 The order also violates international law requiring countries to provide refuge to those in desperate need, and completely reverses the long history of America's claim -- however often the claim was denied -- to be a country that welcomes refugees and immigrants."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

510 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 27, 2017 Friday

Trump's Executive Order Will Amount to a Ban on Muslims from the U.S.

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Institute for Policy Studies has issued the following news release:

  

 Today the White House is expected to issue an executive order calling for drastic changes to U.S. refugee, immigration, and visa policies. 


 

 This is the response from Institute for Policy Studies Middle East expert Phyllis Bennis, who has been analyzing U.S. Middle East and foreign policy for more than 40 years:

 

 "This will amount to an executive order to ban Muslims from the United States, demonizing people from Muslim-majority countries across the Middle East/North Africa. It is no accident that of the seven countries identified, the U.S.

 

     is at war in five (Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Libya and Somalia),

     has troops deployed and military bases in another (Sudan), and

     imposes harsh sanctions and frequent threats against the last (Iran).

 

 These are all policies that fuel refugee flows in the first place. We are banning refugees from wars that we started.

 

 If we are serious about taking care of refugees and ending the conditions that give rise to their plight, we must protect and welcome far more of the 65 million people currently displaced in the world. Simultaneously, we must work to end the wars that create refugees.

 

 The order will also call for the Pentagon to create a "safe zone in Syria and in the region." Almost inevitably, that means launching more airstrikes on the country -- a recipe for more war and inevitably more refugees.

 

 The order also violates international law requiring countries to provide refuge to those in desperate need, and completely reverses the long history of America's claim -- however often the claim was denied -- to be a country that welcomes refugees and immigrants."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

512 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

December 31, 2004 Friday

A NEW DAY

BYLINE: ELISABETH DYER

SECTION: CITY TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: SOUTH TAMPA

For years, Deborah Dennis prayed for a way out of Liberia.
Out of the war-torn country where rebels killed her father, a police officer. Out of the bushes where she hid without food or a safe place to sleep. Out of the crowded refugee camp where she lived for more than a decade. 
"I used to pray that (President) Bush would let me come to America," she said.
With help from a local church, Deborah, 26, her husband, Winston, 38, and their three children now live in an apartment off S Dale Mabry Highway.
It's the life they once only dreamed about.
"America is a freedom country," Winston said in a British accent.
 
+++
The Dennises came to Tampa in May. This marks their first new year in the United States.
Last year, the family ushered in 2004 with an all-night party in the refugee camp. It started with a church service at 11 p.m.
"We sing and dance and drum 'til 6 o'clock in the morning," Deborah said. "It's a time to thank God for a good life."
This year, still wary about going out alone, they plan to celebrate the new year quietly at home.
Born in Liberia, they were among more than 400,000 people who fled to neighboring countries when rebels overthrew the government and civil war erupted in 1990. Winston's brother, an uncle and Deborah's father were killed in the war.
"After my father died, my mother used to suffer," said Deborah, the oldest of three children who was 11 when her father died. "We used to go in the bush and pick up some dry wood and put it on our heads and sell it and go to the market and buy food."
When war broke out, Winston and Deborah arrived separately at the refugee camp in Ivory Coast, a neighboring country on Africa's west coast. Three years later, they married. She was 15.
The couple had three children in the camp: sons Abraham, now 8, and Joseph, 5; and daughter, Delphine, 2. They lived with 25 other families in a room the size of their living and dining area in Tampa.
"Refugee life was bad," Deborah said. "If I told you, you may not believe it. We have to squeeze ourselves together."
 
+++
Getting out of camps is complicated, said Susan Baukhages, a spokeswoman for Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services in Baltimore.
The U.N. High Commission for Refugees sets up camps and determines who qualifies to enter. Refugees must have fled because of religious or political persecution or the threat of violence.
Each year, the U.S. president and Congress determine how many refugees to admit and from which countries. Candidates are screened several times for health and security risks.
Refugees granted asylum in the United States must work or attend school and must repay the government for their travel expenses.
The Dennises were among about 400 refugees in the past year who were placed in Tampa, Miami and Orlando through Lutheran Services Florida. The organization helps families find housing and jobs and enroll in school.
Many refugees come not knowing the language, how to drive or use kitchen appliances.
 
+++
The Dennises arrived with little more than the clothes they were wearing. Deborah brought a few photos of friends and her mother.
Members of Good Shepherd Lutheran Church on Dale Mabry greeted them at the airport and furnished them a modest two-bedroom apartment in the Ohio Apartments in Gandy/Sun Bay South.
Church members drive them to Sunday and Wednesday services, to doctors' appointments and to Publix on Tuesdays. They bought the Dennises their first Christmas tree, decorations and gifts, including a skateboard, a toy truck and a doll.
Children at the church have equally embraced the family, teaching the kids to count and say their ABCs. After a recent Sunday service, Hannah Mackley, Katie Schaefer and sister Christina raced leapfrog-style with them down the church aisles.
"We try to burn off some of their energy," Katie said. "It makes my heart happy."
The boys attend Chiaramonte Elementary School, where they recently met Santa for the first time.
Deborah and Winston have no formal education. They speak Grebo - their native tongue - some English and some French. They cannot read or write.
Helping the family has been a rewarding experience for the entire church, said deacon Deedee Blancett. About 200 people a week attend three weekend services.
"We have been given a gift of people who needed our help as a concerted effort," Blancett said. "It's brought us closer."
 
+++
In the new year, Deborah and Winston aim to learn to read. Deborah hopes to find work caring for children or elderly people. Winston plans to keep his job, working as a carpenter.
At home in their apartment, they watch television news, hoping for word from Africa. They want to help family they left behind. Deborah's mother, younger brother and sister are still in the camp. Winston's mother is in Liberia.
A new baby is due in March - the family's first U.S. citizen. Deborah plans to let the church name the child "so wherever we go, we will always remember the church."
Elisabeth Dyer can be reached at 226-3321 or edyer@sptimes.com.
 
How to help
 
To help refugee families, call Lutheran Services Florida at 875-1408 or go to  http://www.lsfnet.org.DL:
 
About Liberia
 
Size: Slightly larger than Tennessee
 
Population: 3.4-million
 
Median age: About 18
 
Life expectancy: About 48 years, compared with 77 in the United States
 
Unemployment rate: 85 percent
 
Main exports: Rubber, timber, iron, diamonds, cocoa, coffee
 
Source: CIA World Factbook, ESRI

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA, (2); MAP; Joseph Dennis, 5, unwraps a Christmas present early on Dec. 21.; Liberian refugees Deborah and Winston Dennis with their children in their apartment; Map shows location of Liberia in western Africa

Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company

513 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 31, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
The Century of Refugees Ends. And Continues.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

YOU don't see them run, because they aren't on the nightly news shows. But in the last few weeks, tens of thousands of hungry Afghans have been moving toward Herat, near the border of Iran, driven by civil war, bad government, winter and the worst drought in decades.
They aren't alone. A continent away, renewed fighting in the Congo has people on the run again, this time into Zambia, where Angolans are also seeking shelter. In West Africa, the small nation of Guinea, with three million people, is being overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of people fleeing a cruel government in Liberia and a civil war in Sierra Leone. 
 They 20th century may have taught the world to deal systematically with vast refugee flows, too many to count precisely, but the 21st century may have to invent new ways of coping with them, as the nature and definition of refugee crises changes. The Afghans, the Africans, the East Timorese still in West Timor more than a year after their compatriots gained independence from Indonesia -- these people, too, are often running from war and genocide, but the refugee phenomenon has evolved in some important ways in the last half-century.
"The character of refugee flows has changed a lot," said Lionel Rosenblatt, president of Refugees International, an independent aid and advocacy group in Washington. After World War II, he said, "there was some focus and a fairly quick international response -- at least to keep these people alive."
"One of the problems we face now is that this kind of displacement and suffering is occurring in very remote places," Mr. Rosenblatt said. Citing Guinea as an example, he said: "There's no reaction from the world. There's no focus, and it's going to get worse. Bad men and bad leaders abound." That pattern, he said, is "cropping up everywhere, really stretching both the attention of the world and its capacity to respond."
Mr. Rosenblatt has written an open letter to the incoming Bush administration asking it to consider backing an international rapid-reaction force composed of troops from nations that are not permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
"Many experts agree," Mr. Rosenblatt wrote, "that a force of just 5,000 peacemakers could have saved hundreds of thousands of lives in Rwanda in 1994." He also advocates the appointment of an official on the National Security Council who would be responsible for directing America's emergency response to crises.
The explosion in refugee crises has made the old definitions and rules obsolete. Is someone who is abused, terrorized or hungry a refugee only if he or she crosses an international border? At the moment, the United Nations says yes. But that distinction looks absurd amid the brutality of recent civil wars. In response, Richard C. Holbrooke, the American ambassador to the United Nations, and major refugee organizations, have begun a vocal campaign to give so-called "internally displaced people" the same assistance given to refugees.
What is asylum nowadays?
The cold war era definitions are crumbling before what amount to class-action petitions: Chinese migrants who say they are hurt by the one-child policy, women claiming domestic abuse or the fear of traditional genital mutilation. Down the road is an even bigger test: a drive for the free movement of labor from poor nations by workers demanding a right to relief from economic disadvantage. President Vicente Fox Quesada has moved in this direction with calls for the right of Mexicans to emigrate to the United States in search of work.
And what happens when abusive governments wanting to convince the world that everything is under control ask international agencies to distribute aid inside a troubled territory, not outside its borders, so that those who have fled, but are living in despairing deprivation will be lured back to homes that are not safe -- if those homes are even left standing? The United Nations faces this dilemma in Chechnya.
Arthur C. Helton, a specialist in asylum and immigration law who directs a refugee program at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said, "The 20th century created the refugee framework." Millions were displaced by World War I, leading to a major exodus toward the United States. "But it was really only after the Second World War that refugees became a question of high politics," he said.
Organized programs of resettlement became the answer, which continued under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees -- the U.N.H.C.R -- created in 1950.
"With the Hungarian crisis later in the 50's, and the vast displacement of people into Austria, the U.N.H.C.R. became a key player," Mr. Helton said. "It was very much an adjunct of the cold war at that point." The cold war produced other refugee crises, in Indochina, Central America and Afghanistan.
By the late 1980's, with the cold war waning, resettlement began to give way to a demand that refugees be repatriated. The forcible return of Haitian boat people was on display for all Americans to see.
"Cubans were still welcomed because the emigre community of refugees in Miami had become a significant domestic political force," Mr. Helton said. "Haitians, who never made it very high on the foreign policy screen, were treated as unwelcome guests from the very outset. Generally in the developed world now, the welcome is no longer out for refugees."
Also with the end of the cold war, the United Nations refugee commissioner (Sadako Ogata of Japan, who stepped down this month after 10 years, to be succeeded by Ruud Lubbers of the Netherlands) had to deal with new problems in the former Soviet Union, as Russians from the "near abroad" tried to return and those displaced during Stalin-era ethnic resettlements, tried to go back to ancestral homes.
A migration conference for the Commonwealth of Independent States was held in 1996, but progress on resolving the problems has been slow.
THE 1990's also introduced the concept of preemptive intervention to refugee politics. That could mean forceful action inside countries where problems are developing, a policy Secretary General Kofi Annan has endorsed as a last resort.
In barely a decade, the United Nations and private agencies have faced unexpected new tasks: preparing a safe haven for Kurds in northern Iraq and scrambling to find solutions for people caught in the implosion of Yugoslavia. The United Nations has also found itself taking on a new kind of trusteeship, administering first Cambodia, then East Timor and now Kosovo.
For Mr. Rosenblatt at Refugees International, the foray into "nation building" has to start in the refugee camps, where people need to be trained for productive lives when they can go home. Education to break down ethnic, religious and other prejudices can also be introduced, along with counseling.
At the Social Sciences Research Council in New York, Beverlee Bruce, the program director and an anthropologist, is also studying education for refugee populations, with a focus on Africa, as well as projects involving women.
"We want to know, especially in cases of forced migration," she said, "what really does happen when women go back."
"Ambitions and expectations have risen," said Mr. Helton. "The new administration in the U.S. will have to come to terms with these new realities, and will find itself pushed and pulled as this complicated set of new humanitarian challenges force a new kind of statecraft and a new kind of diplomacy."
  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes From a Century of Flight: Armenians, 1922. After expulsions and mass deaths of Armenians at Ottoman Turkish hands after World War I, a huge orphan asylum sprang up in Alexandropol (now Gyumri, Armenia). (Pacific and Atlantic Press)(pg. 4); Germans, 1946. Hitler's rampage left millions displaced in Europe, even some soldiers of his "Master Race." (Keystone Pictures); Belgians, 1914. Citizens and Red Cross volunteers flee the advancing German Army near Tirlemont. (The New York Times); Jews, 1947. Survivors of the Holocaust clamored for entry to Palestine. (Reuters); Kosovars, 1999. Ethnic Albanians fled Serb retribution in the Kosovo war. (Louisa Gouliamaki/Agence France-Presse); Muslims, 1947. India's chaotic partition ignited flight to Pakistan. (Max Desfor/Associated Press); Rwandans, 1990's. Tutsis and Hutus fled each other. (C. Steele-Perkins/Magnum); Cubans, 1994. Refugees took to the sea to flee Castro-style Communism. (Radael Perez/Reuters)(pg. 5)

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company

514 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 10, 1979, Friday, Final Edition


Blue Jeans and Boat People, VOA and the Golden Door

BYLINE: By Henry Mitchell

SECTION: Style; Any Day; D1

LENGTH: 1822 words

The Voice of America is not especially grim but then it's not a playpen, either, and people there take responsibility seriously, their heads full of the 100 million people who listen (in the course of a week) to their broadcasts in Europe, Asia, Africa, South America and other outlandish places.
It unnerved them a little, at first, to discover the current director, R. Peter Straus, "wandering about the halls at 2 in the morning in blue jeans and sneakers" as one highly placed VOA source put it.
Straus really is a New Yorker but got a house in Southwest Washington, five blocks from the office.
He didn't have a car, but a motorcycle, when he arrived two years ago.  As a notable muckety-muck, he had a grand reserved parking place and naturally stabled the old Honda in it. 
"Mr. Straus," said a security official late one night, "I am sure you do not have a motorcycle but there's one in your parking place and -"
"I have a motorcycle," Straus said.
"Oh, God, I was afraid of that.  Well, it's down there with a ticket on it."
Straus' wife commutes from New York on weekends only, and that is the reason he can be found all kinds of hours in the office, and that is why he is so trim:
"I'm a physical exercise nut," he said, "but not handball, no.  Tennis, jogging, and I have a not of time for it with my wife (Ellen Louise Sulzberger, married in 1950) out of town so much."
I mentioned that lately we keep seeing hints in the columns of pundits that the Voice of America keeps raising the hopes of refugees in Indochina, and asked what the hell is going on?
"Nine times out of 10," he said, settling back with the air of a man who knows it's going to take a few minutes, "the job here is challenging and joyful.  Eight times out of 10 it's enjoyable."
I said nothing of the reduced percentage, not being one to nit-pick, and he went on:
"But sometimes the Voice of America is in the middle and it's not enjoyable.  Take just two examples, the Russian dissidents and the Indochina refugees, including the boat people.
"We have the obligation to broadcast the news and broadcast it straight.  We do this 853 hours a week and we are proud of our credibility around the world.
"But when we broadcast news items about, say, Solzhenitsyn's Harvard speech, which was by no means flattering to the United States, we know it may have effects.  The Soviet dissidents keep saying it is urgently important to keep hammering at the plight of dissidents.  But what about some guy in Kiev, say, who is not a celebrity, not a man of worldwide reputation, who is only a moderate nuisance to his government.
"I keep thinking, maybe he would be let alone as long as nothing much was said about dissidents, but maybe his government would crack down on him, hard, if dissidents are discussed too much in world news.
"Or take the boat people fleeing from Vietnam.  Again, we broadcast the news, straight.  You've been through the file and read what we've said.  But when we report that Malaysia and Indonesia are closing their borders to refugees, and that Hong Kong and Thailand are taking pressure from thousands of refugees, of course a man thinking of becoming a refugee will figure it out that it's better for him to go to Thailand than to Indonesia, and in that sense it could be said the Voice of America directs him where to go."
Or if the Voice carries a pledge from the White House that the refugee problem has top priority with Carter, and another news dispatch mentions the location of the Seventh Fleet, it doesn't take much analysis for the potential refugee to head for the fleet instead of some other direction.
Straus says the wording of refugee news is often agonized over, to make certain it does not give any refugee the impression he will be safe if he just heads for an American ship.
There have been two commentaries (editorials) on the refugee problem, prepared on May 25 and June 15, both of them criticizing Hanoi for expelling the ethnic Chinese and urging a more humane handling of the exodus.
But it's true that in villages in Vietnam or Cambodia, isolated peasants may indeed first learn from news items via the Voice that thousands are finding temporary refuge in Thailand, and are learning their plight is of major concern to the American government, and this may in fact embolden some to try leaving who would otherwise have thought their case was hopeless.
It is not the same thing, however, as if the Voice had tried to further American distaste for Hanoi at the cost of inciting hundreds of thousands to flee, many of them to their deaths.
It has had little attention, but one of the great developments at the Voice of America is the clear separation of news from propaganda.
"Our credibility is rising," said Straus, "and we'd like to think it's because we are fine fellows doing a fine job, but I don't think that has anything to do with it.
"The way the people who hear the Voice of America perceive the United States has changed.  They now see the United States as the great power, where formerly they saw Great Britain.  They are more likely now to take the Voice of America to heart than the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation).
"But before I came to this job, the Voice had handled the Watergate scandal with such objectivity that I think it impressed the world audience.  They thought if the Voice could report that news, so damaging and embarrassing to the American government, then probably it could be trusted to report other news without bias too.
"The traditional way to handle policy interests (propaganda) in all international broadcasting companies, has been to do it through the news that's reported.  And the news that's not reported.  But -"
"Just here," I broke in, "take the case of Andy Young sounding off about American jails being full of political prisoners.  That was certainly news.  I suppose Voice of America reported it at the time?"
"In 38 languages," said Straus.
"What seemed to make more sense than leaving out damaging news or trying to make policy (propaganda) points by means of the news, was to have straight news on the one hand, and policy commentaries on the other," he said.
"I thought, why shouldn't the U.S. government have an occasional say-so, to argue its own policies before the radio world?  Wouldn't it be better to say to the world audience, look, here's the straight news.  And now, please listen for two minutes to a commentary that reflects official American policy."
After all, Straus said, "none of that audience is so unsophisticated as to think the American government is in broadcasting just for their health.
"But that audience has to have faith, and we have to earn it, that the American government official viewpoint is contained in the clearly labeled commentaries, not in slanted or managed news.  In the long run, your best chance is simply to be honest with the news and then hope they'll listen to the commentaries on their merits."
There are only about three commentaries a week.  Usually they are broadcast throughout the world, not tailored for specific countries.  In Africa, he said, the commentary about the Tokyo Round might not be broadcast on grounds it did not interest its audience, not on grounds it would be politically or propagandistically imprudent to air it.
Straus, the day I visited him, wore a shirt of murrey color with a dark tie and a neat standard-looking suit of blue cord from Arthur A. Adler.  End fashion flash.
When he is not jogging or roaming the midnight newsroom he gardens with 18 kinds of geranium and many ivies.
"It's just the size of an overgrown handkerchief," he said.  He does not have a lot of dogs or cats or parakeets and a lot of the time he's simply waiting for his wife.  They have four children and both parents, he said, were keen for them to partake of the real world:
"The real world.  But instead, all four of them are in media jobs."
You never know, as a parent, where you went wrong, and life is too short to worry about it now.
I asked him what books formed his mind, hoping for Lewis Carroll, Machiavelli, Castiglione and Gaskell, but refusing to prime the pump with any suggestions:
"Interesting question," he said.  "Which books.  I don't know that I can say." (Pause.  And I knew he intended to go to his grave before he told me.  People are often embarrassed to confess which books they found glorious.  Who wants to admit to "The Anatomy of Melancholy" or "Fairy Tales from Old Japan"?)
"I'll tell you an interesting sidebar about one book," he said.  "My father was best friends and college roommate (Heidelberg) with Otto Frank, father of Anne Frank.  He visited us at our house with the manuscript diary.  My father and I admired it, but thought we were going to have trouble getting it published."
"Probably," I said agreeably.  "The book was marvelous, so naturally you would have trouble finding a publisher.  How long did it take?"
"About a year and a half," he said.  Finally we found a publisher in Germany.  And once people read it, it was soon all over the world."
Voice correspondents in various countries used to be able to buy their scotch at embassy commissaries (to put first things first) and had access to classified papers, and to convenient comfy offices in embassies and to Telex machines and so on.
Straus thought that if news was to be independent of government tampering then his correspondents should rent their own offices and find their own means of transmitting copy, and travel on regular, not diplomatic, passports, and buy their own scotch at stores, and needless to say the correspondents thought the end had come to civilization as they knew it.
But once they were weaned, they liked it.  So did ambassadors, who no longer felt responsible for what correspondents reported (and were no longer chewed out for what correspondents did).
Straus did not smoke.  He is a very strong man, however, and does not faint if others do.
He spoke for a bit on the wide range of men, the richness of variety.  If he were not an American official, he probably would have said a thousand flowers should bloom.
He seemed to be a happy man.  Of course he does not have three dogs to be walked and his children are grown, and he can come to the office in blue jeans if he wants to.Even so, happiness is a gift.
He has family photographs all over the place.  His geraniums are doing fine, and the Carter administration has gone right along with his ideas for the Voice.  The boat people are in the water - no American can escape the burden of that fact.  The wretched refuse of a teeming shore, as a wit once put it.  Still, to be an American, working for the Voice.  It's rather a big deal.  You sense all this from Straus.
The lady with the lamp in the harbor.  (He's a New Yorker).  And it's still, by God, a golden door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

515 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 28, 2018 Sunday  
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words

Leaving Africa, and Living in Limbo
In Metropolitan last Sunday, Matt Katz wrote about Andre Twendele, who fled Africa for America, leaving his wife in a refugee camp. Now, it has become nearly impossible for her to join him. Readers responded on nytimes.com; comments were edited for length and clarity. 
  Beyond heartbreaking, and beyond belief that human beings in the 21st century are forced to live in this manner. Their personal courage in the face of unspeakable horror shames the spineless majority of the American Congress. 
  John Kerr, Brooklyn
  Give me a break. Let's treat the kid in Chicago with asthma, and the retiree in Florida, before we allow another refugee in. There are a million Mr. Twendeles; it is unfair to all of them that he gets in and they can't.
  thewriterstuff, Planet Earth
  Mr. Twendele, you have accomplished the first step and made the voyage to America. In ancient days of Greek mythology, there was a hero, his name was Ulysses, and your story in some ways is similar to his. You are stronger than you realize, more resilient than many of us, you speak a second language, you are still young. America has a large African community, and let us remember, as a friend from Ghana and another from French West Africa, both young grandmothers, reminded me recently, this president will go.
  Miss Ley, New York
  Mr.Twendele is exactly the kind of person we need in America.
  Steve, Ohio
  Whatever happened to the ''city upon a hill,'' with ''the eyes of all people'' on us? Why do Americans feel satisfaction or even pride in what Trump says about immigrants from Africa and Haiti? Wait, don't answer that!
  Jamie Nichols, Santa Barbara
  So the solution to poverty and corruption in Africa is massive immigration to America. This is not a tenable solution. America is already the third-most-populous country after China and India. Immigration cannot solve the world's problems.
  JJackson, New York
  The list of ''most populous countries'' is a list of absolute population numbers, not population relative to square miles. You went from the intimate portrait of the single couple portrayed in the article to ''massive immigration to America.'' We may not be able to solve all the world's problems, but if we can solve some of them, we are ethically required to do so.
  Sprite, U.S.A.
  I'm not really interested in the problems or life story of Mr. Twendele; there are over seven billion stories in the world, and the only ones I care about are the 320 million or so native-born American ones.
  John, Thailand
  Try the Parrot Whisperer
  Readers also commented via Facebook on the Pet City column by Britta Lokting about Glenn Sorino, a self-described parrot ''pied piper.''
  Sorry, but exotic birds are not pets, especially parrots. They don't belong in cages or in beds with humans, they belong in nature; they almost always live as lifetime couples and never alone. Glenn Sorino is of no help at all.
  Nikolaus Tarouquella-Levitan
  Parrots belong in the wild! But we have to give the best life possible to the ones in captivity -- a much compromised life at that. Parrots are a high-maintenance pet: The levels of commitment are high in order to prevent behavioral problems. All parrots retain their wild behavior and are not domesticated in the way a dog or cat would be. I have taken in rescue parrots, and it's a huge responsibility.
  Nicole Place

URL: 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company

517 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Los Angeles Times

September 23, 2018 Sunday  
Home Edition

THE WORLD; 
Trump, U.N. at odds on climate refugees; 
As worsening disasters displace millions, U.S. spurns emissions goals and limits migration.

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1120 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON  

From African farms shriveled into desert to monster storms revved up by warmer air over the oceans, climate change is stoking environmental disasters around the globe and uprooting millions of people a year -- adding to a refugee crisis said to be the worst since World War II.
The increasingly extreme weather patterns have destroyed food and water supplies, left communities destitute, strained national and international aid resources, and fomented political instability in fragile societies in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America, according to development experts. 
"Climate change is the force multiplier for chronic social and environmental problems," said Tim Ash Vie of the Climate Group, an advocacy organization working to counter global warming.
The hazards of global warming will be the focus of high-profile conferences, protests and other events on the margins of the annual United Nations General Assembly meeting this week in New York, echoing some of the features of the Global Climate Action Summit earlier this month in San Francisco.
President Trump is scheduled to address the U.N. on Tuesday. But he has dismissed the science behind climate change as a hoax and pulled the United States out of the 2015 Paris climate accord, which seeks to lower carbon emissions that are linked to global warming.
The Trump administration also has drastically cut the number of vetted refugees fleeing wars and persecution that it will accept into the U.S. Last week, it moved to cap the total next year at 30,000, the lowest since the refugee program was created in 1980.
The plight of those forced from their homes by the changing environment has been overshadowed by the estimated 65 million refugees now surging around the globe, the most in decades. Unlike them, people displaced by environmental changes are not recognized as refugees under international law.
The 1951 Refugee Convention, which grew out of World War II and was ratified by 145 countries, predated modern environmental science. In recent decades, climate scientists have concluded that the planet is warming because of human activities, causing a mix of effects.
A warming polar cap has opened new fishing and shipping routes in the northern oceans, while greater rainfall and longer growing seasons have improved crop yields in some areas. But hurricanes in the Atlantic and typhoons in the Pacific have steadily worsened, causing devastation from North Carolina to China.
In the developing world, so-called climate refugees are often swept into the ranks of economic migrants by unwelcoming, overtaxed governments -- as happened with thousands of sub-Saharan and central African men and women who crossed the Mediterranean Sea to reach southern Europe.
While some migrants were looking for better jobs, other families had fled because drought or torrential rains had destroyed their homes and livelihoods.
An estimated 20 million people are uprooted annually by environmental conditions, according to Alice Thomas, who heads the climate displacement program at Refugees International, a humanitarian and advocacy group.
The total includes victims of some disasters, like earthquakes, that are unrelated to climate, but Thomas said the intensity and frequency of giant storms and droughts is a leading cause of the migration.
"Weather is changing more quickly than we expected, and it will accelerate," she said. "More and more, climate change will become the primary driver for distress migration. It undermines sustained development and the livelihoods so many have relied on for centuries or longer."
Climate change is driving migration, which in turn can result in violence and instability, said Nancy Lindborg, the president of the U.S. Institute of Peace, who has worked extensively on development and democracy issues in Africa. "It has become a nasty cocktail," she added.
In addition to those who cross borders, as many as 140 million people could be displaced within their own countries by 2050, a recent study from the World Bank concludes.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has labeled climate change the most dangerous threat confronting the world. The U.N. environmental program contends that global warming is redrawing the map of where people can live on the planet.
In 2016, the U.N. agreed to establish guidelines on how to deal with climate refugees, among others, to provide protection, access to schooling and other opportunities. After two years of consultation and drafts, the countries are scheduled to ratify the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration in December.
Only one country has dropped out of the process so far -- the U.S. under Trump. Hungary, where a right-wing backlash against immigrants is surging, has indicated it will also withdraw.
The Trump administration has downgraded the issue of climate change and even removed the term from some official documents. Though some administration officials acknowledge climate change is real, they dispute that human activity is causing it.
Scientists and activists paint an alarming portrait of the consequences of extreme weather worldwide.
In Africa, herders and farmers are fighting as Lake Chad evaporates, while drought has nearly wiped out Zimbabwe's staple crop, maize. In India, rains flooded Kerala state at record levels, while rising seas in are nipping away at low-lying islands in the central Pacific.
"The perception is changing quite fast," Elizabeth Sellwood, an expert at the U.N. Environment Program, said in a telephone interview from Nairobi, Kenya. "There is growing realization that climate change is not just an environmental issue but a security issue."
Even in the United States, where families displaced by disasters are not considered refugees, thousands of people have lost homes to wildfires on the West Coast and flooding on the East Coast, all apparently exacerbated by climate change.
Hurricane Florence, which hit the Carolinas this month and killed at least 43 people, carried 50% more water than previous storms because of warmer sea surface temperatures, according to a new study by researchers at Stony Brook University and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
In Alaska, some native fishing villages are threatened by melting permafrost. Although relatively few people are affected, the villages represent unique native cultures, said Joel Clement, a former Interior Department official who will take over an Arctic policy program at Harvard University.
"No human has ever experienced the rate of change in the Arctic that we are seeing now," Clement said. As ice disappears, he said, brutal storms roar in from the Bering Sea and chew away at already shrinking land "meters at a time."
--
tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEN paddle through floodwaters from Typhoon Mangkhut last week in the Philippines. Climate change is driving increasingly extreme weather, experts say.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Noel Celis AFP/Getty Images 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
All Rights Reserved

518 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

March 27, 2008 Thursday

Art out of suffering

BYLINE: By Sheena McFarland The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: WEST VALLEY

LENGTH: 585 words

The bright blue vest of a whirling dervish.
The electric yellow headwrap of a young Dinka woman.
The vivid pink shawl of a woman standing atop a mountain of white cotton balls.
The snapshots come from Sudan, and they are startlingly different from the majority of images many Americans see of the country known for its political upheaval, civil war and millions of refugees.
A traveling, 70-photograph art exhibit ''Sudan: The Land and the People'' is displayed at the Utah Cultural Celebration Center in West Valley City through April 30. 
"The show is to increase awareness about the heart of Sudan and why it should be saved and why people should care," said Susan Klinker, program director at the center.
The exhibit, paid for by the Utah Council for for Citizen Diplomacy, is drawn from the book of the same title written by former U.S. Ambassador Timothy Carney and his wife and collaborator, journalist Victoria Butler.
Photographer Michael Freeman spent more than two years traversing the nearly million miles of Sudan to capture the daily life of the Sudanese people.
The exhibit is broken into five categories: economy, history, people, religion and social/political conflict. However, there are no direct images of war.
One photograph depicts a man drying clothing on an abandoned tank in southern Sudan. Another shows a patient sitting on a bed in a Red Cross Hospital with political messages scrawled on the wall.
In addition to the national show, local artist Atem Aleu, a refugee from Sudan, has displayed artwork from himself and other refugees from the Kakuma Refugee Camp in Kenya.
Aleu, a Lost Boy - a term used for thousands of teenage male Sudanese refugees uprooted by Civil War - who was born in 1980 and moved to the camp in 1994, took up painting then. He came to Utah in 1991 and graduated from Brigham Young University in August 2007 with a degree in fine art.
In June, Aleu returned to the camp to do a 30-day artist workshop for people ranging from 16 to 30 and formed the African Refugee Artists Club. The club consists of refugees still in the camp and other relocated throughout the United States.
"My paintings are about Africa and life in the Refugee Camp, but they are also about hope for the freedom of my people and the beauty I know in my new home in America," Aleu wrote on his Web site.
The paintings generally are acrylic on canvas, and incorporate bright colors but often depict the hardships of life as a refugee.
"The images are very expressive of their culture and individual life experiences," Klinker said. "Some of those images are more expressive of the difficult life experiences of these refugees."
Aleu, who frequently visits Kenya and Uganda to teach displaced Sudanese people to detail their histories through art, hopes people will see the many aspects of the lives of refugees.
"We all had to face the difficulties of life as refugee and I felt that I had much to offer through combining refugee efforts and sharing refugee experiences and their visions for a better life. I used my paintings to tell my story and the stories of the thousands of other young men [Lost Boys] just like me," Aleu wrote on his Web site. "Because I was led to America by the hand of God . . . I feel it is my responsibility to tell the world about what we went through in Sudan."
smcfarland@sltrib.com
Want more info?
* For more information about the exhibit, visit www.culturalcelebration.org.
* For more information about the African Refugee Artists Club, visit www.africanrefugeeartistsclub.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Freeman's photographs are part of the exhibit "Sudan: The Land and the People" at the Utah Cultural Celebration Center. Paired with an exhibit of art by Sudanese refugees, the goal of the exhibits is to help people identify with the culture, land and beauty of Sudan rather than just the wars and conflicts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

521 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Bismarck Tribune

October 24, 2018 Wednesday

Trump refugee cuts can slow resurgence

BYLINE: MICHAEL HILL Associated Press

SECTION: C; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 653 words

BUFFALO, N.Y. - When thousands of others fled the struggling Rust Belt city of Buffalo, refugees poured in to fill the void and invigorate the economy.
Blighted blocks were tidied up by new arrivals from Iraq. Shops selling Ethiopian cuisine opened, and employers snapped up workers from Myanmar and South Sudan. More than 12,000 refugees arrived in the area in 10 years, helping stymie decades of dizzying population loss.
But as the Trump administration throttles the flow of refugees into the United States and the president increases his anti-immigration rhetoric ahead of the midterm elections, Buffalo and other cities that rely on the new arrivals are beginning to feel the pinch. 
"The number of refugees coming into Buffalo now is stalled and that hurts not only my business, but other businesses in town," said Larry Christ, chief operating officer of lighting manufacturer LiteLab, where six languages are spoken on the assembly floor. "Like a car, you need gas to fuel movement forward."
Big, burgeoning cities like San Diego and Dallas accept more refugees, but their arrival can resonate more in smaller, shrinking cities like Buffalo and Syracuse. Buffalo, an old steel and shipping hub, had been locked in a long, losing struggle to keep people from leaving for places with less snow and more jobs.
Enter refugees and immigrants.
Refugees relocated with the help of four separate agencies settle into empty homes and fill jobs at hotels, restaurants and factories. Buffalo, which had lost more than half its population since its postwar peak of around 580,000, is now hovering close to 260,000 people.
"We buy a house that is very old, so we get it cheaper in this way," said Nadeen Yousef, who fled from Iraq with her husband and four children in 2006. "And we fix it every year."
Yousef spoke from her booth at the West Side Bazaar, a retail space that was packed on a recent day with a lunchtime crowd buying halal food, bubble tea and dim sum served by refugee operators. The bazaar serves as an incubator for refugee and immigrant entrepreneurs, some of whom open their own shops selling food from Laos or clothes from Africa.
Yousef comes in after her 5 a.m. shift at a supermarket bakery to spend the afternoon selling handcrafted macrame products and international clothes.
The refugee reduction comes as some 7,200 Central American migrants in Mexico continue their trek toward the U.S. border. President Donald Trump has seized on the moment to renewed Twitter attacks against Democrats on for what he has called "pathetic" immigration laws.
Trump last year cited national security in slashing the annual cap on refugee arrivals to the U.S. from 110,000 to a historically low 45,000. Only 22,491 refugees entered the country last year amid a tougher review process.
The effect in the Buffalo region has been dramatic.
A metropolitan area that welcomed 1,934 refugees two years ago took in 686 last year and is on track to receive fewer than 450 people this year, according to an analysis of refugee placement data by the Fiscal Policy Institute. Arrivals could dip more this coming year now that the Trump administration lowered the refugee cap again for this budget year, to 30,000.
Refugees can cost money for localities in the short term, though there's research showing they pay more in taxes than they receive in benefits over years. Some local politicians have criticized refugees' cost and the potential security risk of hosting people from Syria.
But support for refugees is broad in Buffalo, a Democrat-dominated city. The Buffalo metropolitan area's growth rate has lagged behind the national average. But more single-family homes are selling for more money compared to earlier this decade.
There are multiple reasons for the uptick, but many see refugees as a crucial cog for growth.
"We need this influx of refugees or we just become a flat economy again," said Democratic state Assemblyman Sean Ryan.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
All Rights Reserved

523 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 12, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Congo Under Laurent Kabila

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 438 words

The course taken by the new Government of Congo under Laurent Kabila will have important consequences for much of Africa. Nine other countries border on the vast, mineral-rich and strategically located land formerly known as Zaire, and the political and military dynamics in several of them have already begun to shift. So have regional perceptions of France and the United States. Paris lost prestige for sticking too long with the dictator of Zaire, Mobutu Sese Seko. Washington, though also a longtime Mobutu supporter, is now identified with the new Kabila Government.
The Clinton Administration has moved deftly in this rapidly changing situation, opening a direct dialogue with Mr. Kabila through Bill Richardson, America's United Nations representative, who also acts as President Clinton's personal emissary. 
 Concerns have already emerged about the Kabila regime's involvement in refugee killings and its commitment to democracy. Troops loyal to Mr. Kabila reportedly carried out deliberate massacres of Hutu refugees from Rwanda. The new Government has also restricted political rights, deferred elections for at least two years and failed to incorporate longtime political opponents of the Mobutu dictatorship in its administration.
After decades of winking at Mr. Mobutu's authoritarianism, corruption and violations of his neighbors' sovereignty, Washington would seem awkward preaching civic virtue to Mr. Kabila. But that is what it must do. Condoning new abuses will not help Congo recover from Mr. Mobutu's disastrous misrule.
Washington must also back up its advice with human rights conditions on American aid. Last weekend Mr. Richardson told Mr. Kabila that the United States was prepared to help with health and education needs, planning a market economy, organizing elections and integrating former soldiers into society. But he rightly conditioned this help on Mr. Kabila's addressing urgent humanitarian issues and longer-term political reforms.
The first important test will be how Mr. Kabila responds to the massacre reports. These must be promptly and impartially investigated and any guilty parties prosecuted. The new Government must also give the United Nations and the International Red Cross access to remaining refugees and cooperate in their eventual repatriation to Rwanda or safe havens elsewhere.
Mr. Kabila only recently emerged from obscurity and should be given a chance to respond to Mr. Richardson's advice. But America should provide aid only if he begins to move Congo away from the human rights abuses and dictatorship it suffered for so long under Mr. Mobutu.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company

525 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

March 13, 2017 Monday

Young refugee loves life in U.S., but wonders about fate of sister left behind; 
A harrowing escape from traffickers and help from Catholic Community Services brought her  to Salt Lake City.

BYLINE: By Christopher Smart The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH NEWS; Politics

LENGTH: 962 words

Desperate to leave Eritrea, Africa, then 16-year-old Rita Okbalidet paid smugglers to take her to Sudan, where they sold her to human traffickers, who blindfolded her and stole her away to the Sinai desert in Egypt and demanded ransom from her mother.
She recalled those harrowing days last week in the comfortable home of Pam Silberman and Bryan Gibson in Salt Lake City. Although she doesn't like to dwell on it, Rita remembered languishing in the hot and horrible desert camp for four months, where people sometimes died when ransom wasn't forthcoming. 
Traffickers eventually dropped her off blindfolded in Cairo near a church, where she found help and friendship.
Rita arrived in Salt Lake City on Sept. 9, 2014, three weeks before her 18th birthday. Now 20, she smiles when considering her new life. She has mastered English and just graduated from Horizonte Instruction and Training Center. Rita has enrolled in a certified nursing-assistant program at Salt Lake Community College. Her dream is to become a nurse.
Beyond that, she works 25 to 30 hours a week at Cafe Rio.
Rita has come a long way from those traumatic and desperate times during her exodus, said Silberman, her foster mother. She is now gregarious and determined to make her life successful.
"I have freedom. I have education. I have work," Rita said. "But half of my brain is with my family."
Rita's 15-year-old sister, Miriam, is in Khartoum, Sudan. Like Rita, she had paid smugglers to get her out of Eritrea, which is just north of Ethiopia on the horn of eastern Africa. And like her sister, she was sold to traffickers.
This time, it was Rita who paid the $5,000 ransom to free her.
"Traffickers prey on young people who have no future and want a better life," Silberman said.
Rita also sends money to her mother and two younger siblings, who remain in Eritrea. When she becomes a nurse, she will be able to support her mother, Rita said, eyes welling with emotion.
Miriam is now on the list of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The process to immigrate normally would take 18 to 24 months.
But President Donald Trump's renewed travel ban likely will be an obstacle in Miriam's effort to reunite with Rita. Not only is Miriam a refugee, but she is in Sudan, one of six countries banned under the president's executive order.
It is impossible to know Miriam's fate at this point, Silberman said. "Even though she is from Eritrea, she is now in Sudan -- we don't know what that means."
Rita said Trump and his views on immigration frighten her. "It makes me so sad."
"I was always praying for Hillary Clinton," she said with a look of resignation.
In Eritrea, Rita lived in a small village with no electricity or running water. But that's not why she left. After the 11th grade, young men and women are conscripted into the Eritrean army, where they may spend the entirety of their working lives. Many young people want to leave Eritrea because there is no future there.
After eighth grade, Rita's mother kept her from returning to school, so she wouldn't be on the government's radar and could help raise her three younger siblings. Her father had left the family years earlier.
"I chose to leave my country," Rita said, "because I didn't have freedom."
If she were returned to Eritrea, she could be imprisoned or killed.
Rita was brought to the U.S. with the help of Catholic Community Services Unaccompanied Refugee Minor Program. But she didn't choose America.
Silberman explained that refugees seldom get to select a host country. People Rita met along the way are now scattered across Europe and in Canada. She keeps track of them on Facebook.
That is among the reasons why Trump's temporary refugee ban is ill advised, Silberman said.
Most refugees know little or nothing about the United States, she added. "It makes no sense to say, we want only people who love America."
"Refugees would really like to be in their own country," Silberman explained. "They just want to be safe and free."
Now that she is here, however, Rita wants to be an American. She loves practically everything about this country.
Recently, Rita was among a contingent of people who met with the staff of Utah Rep. Chris Stewart in Salt Lake City. She was nervous about the visit but said she wanted them to know what a refugee looks like.
"It's easy to think of refugees as people to be afraid of," Silberman said. "But when you see Rita, you say, 'aren't these the kind of people we want here?' "
Rita's face lights up when she thinks of running water and electricity. "There is water everywhere here," she said, recalling her previous life where it had to be carried from a well a mile from her house.
She loves to take showers. But her foster mother has to remind her to turn the lights off when she leaves a room.
And Rita now has the luxury to think about her future. That is something people in Eritrea don't normally do -- they must focus on getting through the day, which includes obtaining basic things like food and water.
"You must understand, where I come from we don't think about the future," Rita said. "I had never thought about my future before I came here."
Rita's life has changed, but so has that of her foster family, including 15-year-old foster sister Willa Gibson.
Silberman said that Rita makes Willa much more appreciative of what she has, and gives the family a better understanding of people's struggles outside the United States.
"We should embrace the global world, rather than be afraid of it," Silberman said. "You don't have to leave the U.S. to get a better understanding of the world -- just meet a refugee."
Anyone interested in becoming a foster parent for the Catholic Community Services Unaccompanied Refugee Minor Program can visit the website ccsutah.org or call 801-428-1283
csmart@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

531 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

November 7, 2018 Wednesday

Trump demonized Somali refugees in Minnesota, now one of them just won a seat in Congress

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 550 words

Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s.
He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State militant group.) 
Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota, where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out. And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.
Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her victory speech.
Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in history to be elected legislator in the United States.
Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of the immigration system," Abdi said.
Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather at local caucuses.
In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State or were caught conspiring to do so.
But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.
"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really positive."
Duchess Harris, a professor of American studies at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn., and author of "Black Feminist Politics from Kennedy to Trump," said Omar's win is "a tremendous success for the people of the 5th District."
The area Omar will represent "has changed so drastically in the last 30 years that you know she clearly reflects a voice and a sentiment for the community," Harris said.
"This is a win for all Americans because we are a country that espouses freedom of religion, and I think for people to see someone who wears a hijab on the congressional floor is an important symbol for that fact."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

532 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

November 7, 2018 Wednesday

Trump demonized Somali refugees in Minnesota, now one of them just won a seat in Congress

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 550 words

Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s.
He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State militant group.) 
Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota, where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out. And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.
Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her victory speech.
Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in history to be elected legislator in the United States.
Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of the immigration system," Abdi said.
Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather at local caucuses.
In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State or were caught conspiring to do so.
But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.
"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really positive."
Duchess Harris, a professor of American studies at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn., and author of "Black Feminist Politics from Kennedy to Trump," said Omar's win is "a tremendous success for the people of the 5th District."
The area Omar will represent "has changed so drastically in the last 30 years that you know she clearly reflects a voice and a sentiment for the community," Harris said.
"This is a win for all Americans because we are a country that espouses freedom of religion, and I think for people to see someone who wears a hijab on the congressional floor is an important symbol for that fact."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

533 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 13, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Sends Team to Central Africa; International Force to Aid Rwandan Refugees Being Considered

Thomas W. Lippman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1037 words

 
The Pentagon dispatched a 40-member team to Central Africa yesterday to assess supply and security needs as Clinton administration officials said the United States is likely to participate in an international military rescue mission to aid Rwandan refugees in Zaire.
Senior officials said, however, that no U.S. forces would be committed to such an effort until crucial questions have been answered about how a force would be organized, who would lead it and what its objectives would be.
Under growing pressure from France, Canada and the United Nations to make a commitment to a mission to aid an estimated 1.1 million Rwandans in need of food and shelter, U.S. officials said they are not going to be stampeded into an operation that could blow up in their faces.
Nevertheless, U.S. officials stepped up planning for possible U.S. participation in a relief effort. A team from the U.S. Agency for International Development is attempting to cross into Zaire from Rwanda, the State Department said. 
The Defense Department's announcement that an assessment team will be flown to Central Africa from Italy today said that "this deployment will enhance the military's ability to respond but does not represent a commitment by the U.S. to deploy other forces."
U.S. officials made little effort to disguise their irritation with France, which made a plea for an international force last week. In the American view, Paris did so without providing a credible deployment plan in a transparent effort to ingratiate itself with Africa at U.S. expense.
Canada, which has offered to lead a humanitarian mission and provide troops for it, sent a senior-level delegation here yesterday to discuss the proposed intervention with White House national security adviser Anthony Lake and other senior U.S. officials.
The United States agrees that such a mission is probably necessary, U.S. officials said, adding that if it takes place America should participate. The international community has a humanitarian obligation to help in such a dire situation, and the United States has the kind of transport planes, generators, water purifying units and other necessary equipment, officials said.
But one official who was briefed on the talks said Washington is taking the position that "we are not prepared to go to Congress and the American people with a plan that is not fully thought out, without agreement on rules of engagement or force capability. We will not haphazardly throw U.S. troops into such a volatile situation."
As they have throughout the past week, U.S. officials stressed the complexity of the situation in eastern Zaire. It is true that hundreds of thousands of people probably need help, U.S. officials said, but at the same time the circumstances on the ground make it difficult to provide that aid without risking an armed conflict with Rwandan militias.
"You can't simply, you know, air drop C-rations or MREs [meals ready to eat], as they're called, in there and hope it all gets solved," State Department spokesman Glyn Davies said. "We can't simply go in there without a plan for dealing with repatriation" of the Rwandan refugees to their home country.
Most of the refugees in Zaire are Hutus who fled Rwanda after the genocidal conflict there in 1994. Rwanda now is controlled by the rival Tutsi tribal group, which drove out the Hutus after suffering hundreds of thousands of deaths in the 1994 fighting. The refugees recently fled their camps along the Zaire-Rwanda border when a Zairian Tutsi group, facing expulsion from Zaire, began attacking the Zairian army units in the area.
The U.S. position, shared by the Rwandan government, is that any plan to aid the refugees must include their return to Rwanda.
According to several U.S. officials, the biggest obstacle to deploying a relief mission is that the refugees remain largely under the control of former Rwandan officials and Hutu militia leaders who perpetrated the mass killings in 1994. Those Rwandans do not wish to return home because they fear reprisal or prosecution, and they have persuaded or intimidated the refugees, who have been their meal ticket for the past two years, to stay with them.
Rwandan Ambassador Theogene Rudasingwa said here yesterday that his country, like the United States, opposes any rescue mission that simply returns the refugees to their former camps, which the Hutu militias had used as bases to harass Rwanda.
"An international neutral force of intervention should have a clear mandate for neutralizing these [Hutu] forces," he said at a forum at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Otherwise, he said, "the government of Rwanda is willing and ready to undertake to liberate Rwandese refugees from these [Hutu] criminals."
In light of the possibility of further violence, U.S. officials said, Washington wants to know exactly what an international force would be expected to do and where, what its exit strategy would be, how the legitimate refugees would be separated from their militia bosses, and who would pay for the African military units envisioned in the Canadian plan.
Estimates of how long it would take to resolve these issues firmly enough to take the matter to President Clinton ranged from 24 hours to several days. With a decision pending on extending the U.S. peacekeeping commitment in Bosnia, officials said, the administration does not want to embark on a mission in Africa that would evoke memories of the 1993 Somalia debacle.
Canada's offer to lead a relief mission came after Prime Minister Jean Chretien spent the weekend telephoning leaders in Europe, Africa and the United States to gauge support.
He said the country has received commitments from 10 nations to participate, and from that should be able to assemble the up to 10,000 troops needed for a strictly "humanitarian" effort.
Canada itself would commit up to 1,500 troops, including a newly formed Disaster Assistance Response Team that could deliver military physicians, engineers and communications experts to Africa within 48 hours.
Correspondent Howard Schneider in Toronto and staff writer Peter Baker in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp/thomas coex

Copyright 1996 The Washington Post

534 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 11, 2017 Monday

PSI Denounces Decision by United States Trump Administration to Pull Out of the UN Global Compact on Migration

LENGTH: 713  words


UK: Public Services International, has issued the following news release:


 As delegates from United Nations Member States, international organisations, civil society organisations and various stakeholders gather in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico for the Stocktaking Meeting to prepare for the negotiations for the UN Global Compact for Migration in 2018, the Trump Administration announces that the United States is pulling out of the process.   

    According to Niki Haley, US Ambassador to the United Nations, "While the US is proud of its leadership on migration and refugee issues, the global approach is not compatible with the nation's sovereignty." She said that Trump made the decision, and emphasized that Americans should determine their own policies on immigration. "Our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by Americans and Americans alone. We will decide how best to control our borders and who will be allowed to enter our country," she says.  
Public Services International (PSI) and its US affiliates denounce such a shameful and callous decision.  
In 2016, in response to the humanitarian crisis resulting from conflicts and instability in Africa and the war in Syria, the United Nations convened a High-Level Summit on Large Flows of Migrants and Refugees. The summit came up with the New York Declaration for Migrants and Refugees, committing UN Member States to adopt a Global Compact on Migration and a Global Compact on Refugees by 2018.  
    "The Compacts represent the global commitment to alleviate human suffering and to save lives of migrants and refugees taking dangerous routes to seek protection and to find work," says Rosa Pavanelli, Public Services International General Secretary. "What we have right now are 65.6 million people forcibly displaced by conflicts, violence and human rights violations. The numbers are increasing, with more than half being displaced are children, and about half are female," says Pavanelli.  
    "This is about fundamental human rights and UN Member States' obligation to uphold these rights. While States have sovereignty over their borders, they also have the sovereign right to respect, protect and fulfil human rights. We cannot allow a powerful and rich country such as the US to turn its back on human rights and humanitarian obligations. It is completely shameful," says Pavanelli.  
In an issued statement, the President of the UN General Assembly, Miroslav Lajck, regretted the US decision, and reminds that no one nation can manage international migration alone.  
    PSI affiliate, the American Federation of Teachers' (AFT) President Randi Weingarten says, "The withdrawal of the United States from the negotiations over the United Nations Global Compact on Migration--a forum designed to bring the world together to protect the rights of refugees and migrants--is cruel and counterproductive. The Trump administration's decision to abandon those seeking a better life, to score narrow political points, disserves America and our legacy as a nation of immigrants. Further, it is counterproductive, as refugee and migration issues will still be addressed globally but without America's ingenuity or leadership in exchanging ideas and forging rational, coordinated responses. We must invest our time and effort in collective solutions, not blindside our friends and allies at the first sign of stress."  
    "The migration compact negotiations should proceed with or without the participation of the United States. The AFT will continue to urge that our government take a more responsible approach to our shared future," adds Weingarten.  
    Another PSI affiliate, the Service Employees International Union's (SEIU) President Mary Kay Henry says, "This decision is yet another callous and cruel act by the Trump Administration that undermines our historic commitment to human rights and devalues immigrants and their families, diminishing the American Dream."  
PSI, together with other Global Union Federations, participates in the processes around the Global Compacts. Between February and July 2018, States will negotiate the text of the Global Compact on Migration in UN New York.  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

542 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

January 20, 2007 Saturday  
Final Edition

He Escaped Sudan, But Not the Tug of A Heavy Heart

BYLINE: Neely Tucker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 722 words

What debt does a man owe his past? Do survivors have an obligation to the dead? 
 As a boy, John Bul Dau ate mud, drank urine and swam rivers to outrun the men with the guns. He survived a 1,000-mile trek from his village in southern Sudan to refugee camps in Ethiopia and Kenya. He dug shallow graves to bury children who collapsed. The next day, a hand or foot would be stretching out of the earth, gnawed by hyenas. 
 As a man, John Dau is a 34-year-old security guard and college student in Syracuse, N.Y. He's recently married, a brand-new father and a citizen of a strange country called the United States.  
 But Dau, the subject of the National Geographic documentary "God Grew Tired of Us," which opened in Washington yesterday, is using his life here to try to improve the lot of people back home. Life in its fullest sense, he says, is something in which connections remain, over the years, over the oceans. 
 "I'm getting into the 'my my my' and 'I I I' thing here. But I need to stay in my culture, to be able to say, 'This is ours.' I want to combine the 'I' and the 'us.' " 
 It's that sense of the language, and rumination on what this life means, that makes Dau the unlikely star of an unlikely hit  --  an 85-minute film about a few of the young Sudanese refugees who fled the government extermination of their ethnic kin in the late 1980s. (The title stems from a haunting soliloquy Dau has in the film.)  
 He's talking in a small office in the National Geographic headquarters in downtown Washington, soft of voice, shy of manner. He's wearing a leather jacket and a Disney "Cars" watch. He is 6 feet 8 inches tall. Last week, Variety reported that at the Hollywood premiere of the film, you could pretty much walk up to producer Brad Pitt and chat as long as you wanted. Dau? Forget it. The man was mobbed. 
 More than a decade ago, Dau and the 25,000 or so of his young compatriots were dubbed, in someone's idea of a fundraising gimmick for aid organizations, the "lost boys" of Sudan, a moniker that  has more to do with Peter Pan and Western imagery than it does a brutal conflict bordering the Horn of Africa. But it was effective at highlighting the plight of thousands of young men who, once in a sprawling refugee camp in northern Kenya, couldn't go home again. 
 "Their suffering, even on a refugee scale, was as acute as humanly possible," says John Prendergast, senior adviser at the International Crisis Group, who has been going into Sudan for 20 years. "The extremities of violence and horror they had to endure, alone, without their families, just set them apart." 
 After nine years in limbo, a few thousand young men were granted asylum in the United States.  
 Dau, a natural leader, was one of those chosen, and the film follows his 2001 journey, along with that of two others, into the complications of life in a place with grocery stores, swimming pools, indoor plumbing and confounding realities. 
  "We came with maybe the wrong perception of America. People thought it was so easy here. You'd tie a green card around your neck and you could go to any restaurant and eat," he says. 
 He became the focus of the film by happenstance. There was a message board in the refugee camp  --  this was a place of 80,000 people  --  to which people would stampede to see who had been granted immigration acceptance.  
 Film director Christopher Quinn: "We were standing there at the name board, and John had already been chosen. He came up to me and asked, 'What happens to my friends left in the camp?' " 
 So even as Dau landed in America, with one inglorious job after another  --  factory worker, burger flipper --  he sent money back to the refugees. He also helped create a tiny nonprofit at a local church, the American Care for Sudan Foundation (www.acsudanfoundation.org). It's all volunteer, with 100 percent of the proceeds going toward building a hospital clinic in his home region. 
  He's just starting work at a new nonprofit, Direct Change (www.directchange.org), that is trying to push the clinic funding from its current $180,000 level to its $230,000 goal. They're scheduled to start construction next week.  
 "I'm really looking forward to that," he says. "Our women have never given birth in a hospital before." 
 What does a man owe his past? 
 John Dau, day by day in America, is finding out. 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Washington Post

544 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: To Mark World Refugee Day, GOP Will Slash Refugees, Erect Barriers for Asylum Seekers & Make It Harder for Central American Children

LENGTH: 1368  words

DATELINE: New York 


Washington: Office of the MP Luis V. Gutierrez has issued the following news release:

Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutirrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor to take note of the hearing this morning in the House Judiciary Committee to pass Republican bills to slash refugee numbers and make it harder for asylum seekers to find safety in the U.S.  This comes just one day after World Refugee Day, a day "to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help," the Congressman said.   

Standing in front of a replica of the "Irish Need Not Apply" signs from the 19th century, Rep. Gutirrez noted that the bills voted on in Committee today would have kept many of the Irish out.  He said:  
    Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland, that's about 10% of the U.S. population. And, let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what they considered their best people. They were poor, they were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said they were sending rapists and murderers and drunks - even if some, they assumed, were good people... But who can imagine America without the Irish today?  
In his speech, Rep. Gutirrez recalled the history of - and resistance to - Irish migration, the quarantines and laws to keep them out, and the fear of Catholicism.  He said:  
    A lot of this sounds familiar to me today as we discuss the Muslim Ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its commitment to refugees; Or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today to punish children fleeing violence in Central America.  
The Congressman, concluded by noting that the current Speaker of the House and countless others in the Congress, the White House and throughout American society, are descendants of the Irish Catholic wave of migrants, and that they should heed the words, just this past weekend, of Pope Francis who discussed the benefits of meeting with and getting to know refugees.  The Congressman said:  
    His Holiness said "personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity." Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues, including our Speaker who is both Irish and Catholic, had been listening, but I fear they were not.  
A video of the Congressman's floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/Lha5qLd7rgI  
The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below.  
Rep. Gutirrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois.  He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.  
FLOOR SPEECH  
June 21, 2017  
    Mr. Speaker: Yesterday was World Refugee Day, a day set aside by the United Nations to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help.  
    To mark this solemn occasion, today in the Judiciary Committee, House Republicans will vote to slash refugee resettlement numbers, cut back aid to those fleeing violence and persecution for their religious or political beliefs, and make it harder for children fleeing violence - especially those from Central America - from receiving asylum from the richest, freest nation in the world.  
    Tell me, how does that "Make America Great Again" Mr. Speaker?  
    According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, there are more than 65 million people--a record number--who have been forcibly displaced from their homes.  More than 21 million are refugees.  
    War - like the fighting in Somalia, Afghanistan and Syria - is one of the main causes of displacement.  Almost half of the Syrian population has been displaced.  
    But famine and political persecution, instability and violence are also big contributing factors.  
    86 percent of the world's refugees are now finding refuge in the developing world, with only 14 percent finding refuge in developed countries like the U.S., Canada and European nations.  
    Worldwide, more than half of all refugees are children under 18.  
    So when anti-immigrant leaders, websites, and TV networks paint those fleeing the Middle East, Africa and Asia as hardened jihadists - or those fleeing Central America as gang-leaders and drug kingpins - remember, for the most part, we are actually talking about children fleeing for their lives, with their parents who are desperate to find a safe place for their children to grow up and thrive.  
    Mr. Speaker, America has throughout our history been a beacon of hope to refugees fleeing religious attacks, facing government intolerance and persecution, ethnic strife or unsustainable poverty.  
    And this dates back long before those words were etched in the Statue of Liberty about "give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free."  
    Beginning in the 1840s, when the potato crop disappeared because of a blight in Ireland, the Irish people were left starving.  
    Of the 8 million people in Ireland, 3 to 4 million faced starvation, about 1 million died, mostly of starvation and disease, and another 2 million came to North America, primarily to the US and Canada.  
    According to a recent article in The Irish Times,  
    "Panic had set in by winter 1846/47. People risked winter voyages across the Atlantic on unsanitary, unsafe 'coffin ships'"  
    The article continues:  
    "People were placed in quarantine stations, or held onboard ships docked at ports...Refugees experienced violent and racist reactions. Liverpool, Glasgow and Edinburgh, Montreal, Boston, New York and Philadelphia sought unsuccessfully to restrict entry."  
    A lot of this sounds familiar to me today as we discuss the Muslim Ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its commitment to refugees; Or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today to punish children fleeing violence in Central America.  
    Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland, that's about 10% of the U.S. population.  
    And, let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what they considered their best people.  They were poor, they were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said they were sending rapists and murderers and drunks - even if some, they assumed, were good people.  
    They were from a religion that threatened the United States.  They were Catholics, who were as foreign to American Protestants in some regards as Muslims are today.  
    Americans said they would never be loyal to the U.S. and would only be loyal to Rome.  They did not share our values of hard work and family, of sobriety or abiding by laws.  
    But who can imagine America without the Irish today?  
    You look down the list of Generals and Presidents, Members of Congress, Senators, entertainers, business leaders and every aspect of American society - today in America we can all say we are Irish to some degree.  
    As House Republicans vote today to pass bills to keep out the "wretched refuse of your teeming shore..." - as we pass laws to pull up the draw bridge and put a big "Do Not Enter" sign on the Statue of Liberty, I hope my Republican colleagues who can trace roots back to someone who came across the water, risked everything, and bet their lives on the United States - I hope all of us will reflect on those ancestors as we deliberate laws that would have kept many of them out.  
    His Holiness Pope Francis, who we all remember spoke just steps from where I am now and reminded us to always remember the Golden Rule in all our deliberations - Pope Francis said just this past Sunday that the nations of the world should continue to welcome refugees; and each of us as individuals can learn a lot by meeting with, speaking with, and breaking bread with refugees.  His Holiness said, "personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity."  
    Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues, including our Speaker who is both Irish and Catholic, had been listening, but I fear they were not. 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

546 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

May 28, 2006 Sunday  
3 Edition

Darfur crisis seems so distant

BYLINE: EMILY NIPPS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: TAMPA 

Getting people in Tampa Bay to care about violence in Sudan takes more than a think tank luncheon in the University of South Florida's small TECO Room.
But even the 75 or so students, professors and other attendees at the Saturday meeting might make a small difference, or at least that was the hope of the event's organizers, the United Nations' Association of the United States of America.
While members of the audience sipped iced tea and ate chicken and rice pilaf, they listened to panelists speak out against the genocidal practices and other human rights violations committed in Darfur, a region in western Sudan. 
They watched video clips of starving men, women, children and animals living among tattered huts in refugee camps. They asked questions about the region and the Sudanese government. They got answers from Sudanese refugees (commonly known as the Lost Boys of Sudan) who live in New Port Richey.
"I would say most Americans don't really know where Sudan is," said Hal Hann, a UNA-USA member and Sun City Center retiree who attended the luncheon.
And that's part of the problem, said Linda Ruescher of the Tampa Bay Refugee Task Force, who helps Sudanese refugees adapt to American life in the Tampa Bay area.
"We get these little clips and sound bites, instead of a real person," she said. "I think we get bombarded with so many things, it's not real."
Many Sudanese refugees live in the Tampa Bay area, including several in New Port Richey. But even those living in the United States have a hard time getting Americans to understand their stories because of language and cultural differences.
When asked about the home and family he left behind in southern Sudan, refugee John Deng focused more on explaining the history and politics of the Darfur conflict rather his own plight. The four tall, lean Sudanese refugees at the meeting were friendly and chatty with audience members afterward but seemed to have a hard time revealing personal information, and some even struggled with giving their ages.
"It's because they don't know you," Ruescher said, adding that many of the Lost Boys don't know their ages (the four men were estimated to be in their 20s). They were among the 17,000 children who fled Sudan in the late 1980s and survived in the wild before landing in a refugee camp in Kenya. Many of those who eventually came to the United States were issued ages and the same birthday - Jan. 1.
Perhaps the most significant panelist was Yahya Osman, secretary general of the Darfur Rehabilitation Project, who is flying to Africa today to meet with Sudanese government officials and rebel army leaders to propose changes to a recent unsuccessful peace agreement. A successful agreement would put an end to three years of fighting among the Arab-dominated government and non-Arab rebel groups and what is estimated to be as many as 450,000 civilian deaths.
"Your effort is needed to open eyes to what the Sudanese government is doing ... and the millions of lives that are being killed," Osman said. He urged the audience to write to local and national government officials. He also stressed the importance of withdrawing financial support from and dumping shares of international corporations that do business with Sudan.
You can learn more by visiting www.darfurrehab.com or www.sudandivestment.com.
Emily Nipps can be reached at (813) 269-5313 or nipps@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

547 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

May 8, 2004 Saturday  
FINAL EDITION

Refugee Mother Gets 2nd Chance At Alpha House

BYLINE: LENORA LAKE, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: SOUTH TAMPA 

RED CROSS LOOKING FOR FAMILY
By LENORA LAKE
Tribune correspondent
SOUTH TAMPA -- When Isatu Sankoh stepped off a plane from a refugee camp in Ghana a year ago, she didn't know she would celebrate her first Mother's Day on Sunday. 
Sankoh, 19, plans to attend church with a friend and spend time with her 5-month-old daughter, Fransatu. Her daughter, named for her husband, Frank, and herself, was born while Sankoh was a resident in Alpha House's maternity home.
Sankoh, of Sierra Leone in West Africa, and her daughter now are in transitional housing, also sponsored by Alpha House. The 23-year-old facility at 201 S. Tampania Ave. serves pregnant women in crisis. Sankoh's husband remains in the refugee camp, hoping to join her here.
Sankoh was 12 when rebel forces overran her home in Sierra Leone. They came for her father, a policeman, and mother, a businesswoman.
"They beat me and raped me," she said.
The rebels kidnapped her two sisters.
Sankoh also was kidnapped but eventually made her way to a beach where she was rescued by a ship. She ended up in a refugee camp of about 100,000 people in Ghana.
She lost contact with her family -- her brother avoided kidnap because he was at school when the rebels came -- but heard last month that her parents might be in a refugee camp. The American Red Cross is trying to locate them.
While at the camp, she met Frank, now 21. He arrived there at age 18 and had been a student and farmer in Liberia.
They had been married six months when she was selected for immigration. She said it was difficult to leave, but the opportunity was too good to miss. She did not know she was pregnant.
"I could have gone to Canada, but I choose America," said Sankoh, who speaks Creole, English and some French. "I like the people here. They are nice."
She was sponsored by the national Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services.
Lutheran Services Florida, an affiliate, found a sponsoring church and set Sankoh up in an apartment and helped her find work at Busch Gardens. When she learned she was pregnant with medical complications, she was referred to Alpha House, said Danielle Kearney, director of the Florida program, which sponsors about 250 refugees a year.
"We have such admiration for her," said Jennifer Peirce, a counselor at Alpha House, "She was 12, in a refugee camp with no family, and she was able to survive."
At Alpha House, Sankoh is studying for a General Educational Development diploma and hopes to be a nurse and perhaps return to Africa.
"We think she is a brave young woman," Kearney said. "She was looking for peace, freedom, and I think that is the one thing Lutheran Services could do for her. Now she is looking to the future."
Lutheran Services also is working to bring her husband here.
Sankoh calls her husband occasionally, telling him of their daughter's progress.
"I feel good because she is like everything to me," she said.
(CHART) HOW TO HELP
Alpha House needs donations of money, maternity and baby clothes, personal care items for babies and women, towels, diapers, baby formula, strollers and grocery store gift certificates.
Donations can be made at Alpha House, 201 S. Tampania Ave., between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. For information, call (813) 875-2024.
Correspondent Lenora Lake can be reached at (813) 977-2854, Ext. 24.
Copyright  2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
Tribune photo by GARY RINGS Isatu Sankoh, 19, with daughter Fransatu, is studying for the GED at Alpha House. Sankoh is from Sierra Leone, West Africa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

548 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 22, 1983, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ABOUT BOOKS AND AUTHORS

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

SECTION: Section 7; Page 46, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 637 words


EXILED IN AMERICA
REFUGEES fleeing from Central America, Cuba, Africa and Asia have dominated newspaper headlines in recent years, but memories remain vivid of the earlier exodus from Hitler's Europe. Several recent books recount that era during which a generation of scientists, writers, musicians, artists, architects and scholars fled from lands occupied or threatened by the Nazis, although the focus of each of the books is not so much the Third Reich as how well the uprooted refugees and exiles adjusted to their new surroundings.
"Exiled in Paradise" by Anthony Heilbut concentrates on German refugees artists and intellectuals in America, including Hannah Arendt, Albert Einstein, Peter F. Drucker, Kurt Weill and Lotte Lenya. "Strangers in Paradise" by John Russell Taylor is an account of both German and non-German writers and artists - including Alfred Hitchcock, Fritz Land, Thomas Mann and Aldous Huxley - who, for various reasons, began flocking to southern California from the time Hilter came to power in 1933. "Brecht in prominent exiles to California. And "The Muses Flee Hitler," essays about the experiences of European Jews and non-Jews who resettled not just in the United States but also in Britain, Canada, the Far East and South America. 
"The Muses Flee Hitler" recounts the successes of Hannah Arendt and Kurt Weill, the bitterness of composer Bela Bartok and the tragedy of the author Stefan Zweig, who committed suicide along with his wife in Brazil. (Several of Zweig's books have been published recently in the United States by Harmony Books.) "Muses" is published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, known primarily for its reference works and books on the natural sciences, American history and anthropology. The book is based on two colloquia sponsored in 1980 by the Smithsonian Insitution to honor the centennial of the birth of Albert Einstein, who became an American citizen in 1940.
 
THE SUCCESS OF 'DUNE'
FRANK HERBERT'S "God Emperor of Dune," number nine on the Times mass market best-seller list, is that rare bookt hat has become a best seller in hard-cover, trade paperback and now mass market paperback.  Moreover, it was published in all three formats by the Putnam Publishing Group.
The hard-cover edition became a best seller soon after its publication by G. P. PUtnam's Sons in the spring of 1981. The trade paperback, published by Berkley in April 1982, was on the Times bestseller list for 16 weeks. And themass market edition, with some 800,000 copies in print, hopped onto the list earlier this month.  Ironically, it appears on the list at a tie when few other science-fiction titles are represented, even though science fictionis a perennially strong category on the various Times lists.
Like Louis L'Amour, a current best-selling author in hard-cover, Mr. Herbert developed his craft in paperback. After writing a novel published in hard-cover in 1956, the former West Coast journalist put in along apprenticeship and built a loyal following by writing more than 20 books for a half-dozen paperback houses. "God Emperor of Dune" is the fourth book in his series about the fictional locales.  Last year, for instance, he published "The White Plague," a novel about a madman who unleashes a plague in Ireland, England and Libya.  Mr. Herbert has a new book on the way titled "The Lazarus Effect," but readers will have to wait for fall to discover its setting.
 
A LONG LIFE
IF the title of George Burns's new book isn't enough to tempt you to plunk down $11.95 - it's called "How To Live To Be 100 - Or More: The Ultimate Diet, Sex and Exercise Book" - perhaps the book's dedication will convine you that the 87-year-old celebrity may really have stumbled onto something. It reads: "This book is dedicated to the widows of my last six doctors."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company

553 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

June 27, 2016 Monday

Washington: #RefugeesWelcome: Giving Up One Dream for a Greater One of Peace

LENGTH: 303  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has issued the following news release:

  

 I'm happy being here; that's why I work hard. I want to serve this country. I want to be somebody in this country.When I was 16, there was war in the Congo. My dad was killed in the house in front of us. My sister was raped in front of us. They severely beat my mom; they broke her leg. She's lame now and must use a cane and wheelchair. 


 

 We fled to Uganda, and lived in the refugee camp for seven years. I was able to live my dream of playing professional soccer there, but life still wasn't easy in the camp and we feared for our lives because the Congo border was near.

 

 We went through five interviews and five years to come to America. They check a lot of stuff. It's not like you're just going to wake up and go.

 

 I now work at a bakery and as a translator at the International Institute of Erie, helping other refugees from Africa. I speak several languages.

 

 At the Institute, we learn what to do here in America. They teach you everything. We learn about the law.I'm responsible for my mother and my brother's six children. I don't want them to be bad boys or bad girls outside. Nobody drinks in my family, nobody smokes in my family. We're still together as a family; I am happy and proud about that.

 

 When you're living in Africa and they tell you, "You are going to America," you start feeling like you're dreaming. I'm happy being here; that's why I work hard. I want to serve this country. I want to be somebody in this country.

 

 I'm honored to share my story in recognition of World Refugee Day. I encourage you to join the conversation online and share your story using #RefugeesWelcome.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

555 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

April 2, 2018 Monday

Washington: Omaha World Herald: U.N. official: 'U.S. leadership is needed' on refugees; Fortenberry says others need to step up

LENGTH: 678 words

Washington: Office of the MP Jeff Fortenberry has issued the following news release:    War, conflict and persecution drive people from their home countries across the globe.  The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Filippo Grandi, was in Washington recently highlighting the importance of the United States' efforts to help those who have been forced to flee from their homes.  "This is a global phenomenon as we have seen with the arrivals in Europe, with new massive crises in Africa, in Bangladesh and so forth," Grandi told The World-Herald. "The message is: U.S. leadership is needed."    The United States already is a major financial contributor to humanitarian programs that support refugees, he said, but it's important to continue that support and also to dedicate sufficient resources to receive and process refugees.  
 A recent Associated Press analysis of refugee arrival data predicts that about 20,000 refugees will come this year, far below the more than 53,000 that came in 2017.  Grandi said it's in America's national interest to address humanitarian crises. Hanging in the balance, after all, is the stability of areas such as the Middle East and Asia, which hold strategic importance to the United States.  He noted approvingly that Nebraska took in more refugees per capita in 2016 than any other state. Lincoln, for example, boasts a large Yazidi population.  Aides cited Nebraska refugee programs that they said are making a difference, including the work of the Omaha Refugee Task Force and agencies such as Lutheran Family Services.  Public discussion often focuses on potential disadvantages of welcoming refugees, from security risks to economic effects, and not enough on the many positive aspects, Grandi said.  "In the end, these people become producers, taxpayers, good citizens," Grandi said.  Social worker Kaela Volkmer was among the St. Wenceslaus Catholic Church parishioners who welcomed a Syrian family to the area in December 2016.  Although Volkmer has since moved to a different parish, she continues to be involved with the family.  She said challenges included getting the family members transportation early on -- they are living in Elkhorn, where access to public transportation is limited. And navigating the bureaucracy can be difficult.  "I speak the language and have the education, and still my head spins when I'm on the phone trying to figure some of these things out," Volkmer said.  However, the family is making great progress with the help of the community, she said, with the children getting a lot of attention in school and the father now driving a donated car.  Volkmer understands that some Americans are afraid that refugees might pose a risk but she said refugees are extensively vetted and enrich the communities they join.    "They're scared of terrorism, too," she said. "That's what they're running from. That's what they've been victims of. They're looking for a safe place that they can call home."  Rep. Jeff Fortenberry, R-Neb., a member of the House Appropriations Committee who has focused on international issues, agreed that the United States plays an important role when it comes to refugees.  And he cited the Yazidis as a great example of refugees contributing to their community.  But he also said there's too much reliance on the United States and that the international approach to refugees could use a rethinking.  "The 21st century architecture for diplomatic relationships is going to be built on authenticity, not just the fact that the United States became the world's superpower 75 years ago after World War II and therefore is expected to carry the load by ourselves," Fortenberry said. "That's the reality."  He said those "authentic partnerships," an examination of refugee missions and measurable outcomes are necessary.  "We will not do this by ourselves anymore," Fortenberry said. "We will not carry the burden alone, especially when other economies have advanced, when other countries want to take a rightful place at the leadership table in international affairs." 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

558 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

November 29, 2010 Monday

A small role in international drama; 

BYLINE: 

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 427 words

OUR VIEW (Lincoln Journal Star Editorial)
All Nebraskans should be aware of and take pride in the role their state has in determining whether a new country is created in Africa. Nebraska is one of the largest resettlement sites in the country for refugees from the war-torn nation of Sudan. For that reason, Omaha was selected as one of three sites in the country at which refugees from Southern Sudan will vote on whether to secede from the north. 
Stephen Hoth of the Sudanese Civil Society estimates there are 10,000 Sudanese refugees living in Nebraska. Angela Gunther, coordinator for the Fusion Project, estimates there are about 3,000 Sudanese refugees in Lincoln.
The voting process in Nebraska is part of a multination effort that includes Sudan itself and seven other countries in addition to the United States. About 4 million Sudanese have been displaced by the 21-year war that has killed 2 million people.
Registration now is under way for the vote that will begin Jan. 9. As Maker Benjamin of Khartoum, Sudan, told the Journal Star, the vote means that some refugees must travel considerable distances in the United States to cast their ballots.
The referendum was part of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that brought an end to the fighting in 2005. African countries, most notably Kenya, were instrumental in negotiating the peace and helping to prepare for the referendum.
Those planning the vote estimate that 5.5 million southerners inside and outside the country are eligible to vote. Sixty percent of those who register must vote to secede in order for the vote to be valid. In addition to the United States and Sudan, voting will take place in Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Australia, Great Britain, Canada and Egypt.
Most international observers expect Southern Sudan to vote to secede. Northern Sudan is largely Arab and Muslim. Southern Sudan is largely Christian and animist, and populated by sub-Saharan ethnic groups.
There are fears that violence will break out before the vote. Meanwhile, there are reports of an upswing in violence in the Darfur region of Northern Sudan.
A major factor in continuing unrest is the question of future distribution of oil revenue. A separate vote is scheduled in oil-producing region of Abyei on whether it will join the north or the south.
The hope of the international community is that a vote to secede will make permanent the peace that has existed for the past five years between the two regions. A small part of that international drama that will play out in the next few months is taking place here in Nebraska.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 Lincoln Journal Star
All Rights Reserved

563 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

June 14, 2004 Monday

'Here is better,' refugee from Somalia says of S.L.

BYLINE: Elaine Jarvik Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 718 words

   Downstairs, the clock on the living room wall says 10:30, but that's just wishful thinking. The real time is 4:30 a.m. Downtown, in the Little America Hotel, the guests are still sleeping.
Daud Eftin rises in the dark, does his morning prayers, washes up, puts on his uniform: black pants and vest, a crisp white shirt, a tie. He goes into the shed outside the apartment, gets his bicycle, says goodbye to his mother. Now he is riding swiftly through the apartment complex, his white helmet and the sleeves of his white shirt barely visible against the dark blue sky. 
At 18, Eftin is helping to support his parents and six siblings by working at the Little America, where he vacuums the halls and cleans bathrooms.
Hotels and vacuum cleaners and bathrooms were among the long list of things Eftin had never seen before arriving in Salt Lake City last December. Eftin and his family are Somali Bantus. Like other Somali refugees, his family fled his country's civil war 11 years ago. But the Bantus, who were captured as slaves from other parts of Africa and taken to Somalia 200 years go, have long been the most marginalized of all Somalis, discriminated in jobs and formal education. In Somalia they lived in remote rural regions, where even doors were a luxury.
Bantus like Eftin and his family have lived in refugee camps in Kenya for more than a decade, where there was no electricity, no running water, no doorknobs. So the learning curve has been huge for the 100 Bantus who have been relocated to the Salt Lake Valley so far.
But here is Eftin, sitting in the employee break room of Little America on a recent Saturday morning. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a cell phone.
"Probably I was so excited when I got a cell phone the first day," he says.
That's how things are. One day your family leaves a third-world life, boards an airplane, arrives in America, and before you know it you can't imagine your life without text messaging. If you're the mother, you soon long for a washing machine, when before you had never had running water. Macromedia Flash file Listen to Daud Eftin -- his story, his voice Requires Macromedia Flash Player.
In the Little America break room all the other workers are speaking Vietnamese. Eftin sits by himself, a quiet, serious young man waiting for his 6 a.m. shift to begin. Later, after work, he will take TRAX back to where he then bicycles to home.
He lives with his mother and father and six brothers and sisters in an apartment complex of stark two-story townhouses off 500 East in South Salt Lake. His mother, Fatuma Yerow, has decorated her home in the Bantu way, covering the walls with colorful fabric. In a strange country, with limited resources, you have to make do, though; so Eftin's mother has decorated the room with hand-me-down bed sheets, including one featuring Sesame St. characters. The effect -- Ernie and Big Bird, plus a string of colored lights -- is festive.
Eftin turns 19 in July. But like many refugees from Africa, who arrived without birth certificates, he left his actual age behind when he was relocated to America. Like them, Eftin was randomly assigned the same new date of birth: Jan. 1. Because they rarely have calendars, says Aden Batar, a Somali who is director of immigrant and refugee settlement at Catholic Community Services, the Bantus often will mark their birthday by a season. "It was rainy and hot," a Bantu might say.
By the end of the year, estimates Batar, the Salt Lake Valley will have a total of 225 Somali Bantus.
Eftin learned to read and write in the refugee camps, and before moving to Utah had actually become a teacher himself in the Kakuma Camp in Kenya. Most of the refugees have no jobs in the camps, so the idea of steady work is also something to get used to in America. Eftin's father, Abdullahi Kulo, works at Farmland Industries, one of many sub-Saharans working in the frigid rooms of the meatpacking plant. Like all Somali Bantus, Eftin took the last name of his father's father.
Eftin says he would like to become a doctor some day. In his free time he studies for his high school equivalency exam and, more recently, for his driver's exam. Catholic Community Services is helping him get a car.
"Here is better than Somalia in all the ways," Eftin says about his new life. E-mail: jarvik@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

564 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

April 16, 2015 Thursday

An Update on African Immigration to the United States

LENGTH: 485  words

DATELINE: New York 

 Council on Foreign Relations has issued the following news release:
I have written before about African immigration to the United States and the presence of African immigrants in New York City, a new demographic trend. On April 9, the Pew Research Center issued a new report, "A Rising Share of the U.S. Black Population is Foreign Born," which updates and adds precision to the conversation about this important topic. The conclusion from Pew is that black immigrants are doing well and making a significant contribution to American society. 
The Pew study addresses black immigration since 1980, about half of which is of Caribbean origin. (Jamaica and Haiti are the largest sources of black immigration). There is also black immigration from elsewhere, including South America and Mexico. But, Pew makes the important point that the recent growth in black immigration has been from Africa. Pew concludes that Africans are now 36 percent of the foreign-born black population. It states that African immigrants living in the United States rose from 574,000 to 1,400,000 between 2000 and 2013. The two largest African source countries are Nigeria and Ethiopia, with Ghana and Kenya supplying smaller numbers.
As is true for other immigrant groups, Africans concentrate themselves in a few cities, often drawing on already-existing networks. Africans are especially concentrated in the metropolitan areas of New York, Miami, and Washington, D.C., Pew finds.
Pew traces the origin of the current wave of African (and other) arrivals to the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, with its focus on family reunification and skills; the Refugee Act of 1980, which provided a means for immigrants from conflict areas to come to the United States; and the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990, which established a diversity visa program intended to facilitate immigration from underrepresented nations. It is well known that sub-Saharan Africa is a venue of conflict, and Pew finds that 28 percent of African immigrants arrive as refugees or asylum seekers, compared with 13 percent of the total immigrant population.
Pew compares foreign-born blacks (from all parts of the world, not just Africa) with the African-American population: the foreign born are older, more likely to have a bachelor's degree, less likely to live in poverty, and much more likely to be married (in part because their average age, forty-two,  is higher than that of African Americans, twenty-nine). In comparison with the entire U.S. population, black immigrants are slightly less likely to have a college degree, and less likely to own their own homes.
Pew's findings are based on analysis of the 2013 American Community Survey and the census of 1980, 1990, and 2000, all of which were produced by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

565 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Christian Science Monitor

July 22, 2009, Wednesday

Hope and home for refugees

BYLINE: Sharon Carper

SECTION: THE HOME FORUM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 501 words

While the developed countries of Europe and the Northern Hemisphere are coping with refugees assimilating into their societies, waves of family groups in poverty-stricken Latin America and war-torn parts of Africa and the Near East are yearning for security and protection. 
I used to process refugees in Western Africa for resettlement in the United States. I met people longing not only for better lives but for basic rights and freedom from fear. At times, their stories were so graphic and compelling that I wanted to just wrap my arms around them. What comforted me during these times was the promise of God's infinite care for them. This statement in Psalms says it all: "Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there" (139:7, 8).
I knew as I spoke to each refugee that God, who is Love, had never abandoned them. I knew that the divine Father-Mother of all was loving them - loving all His-Her children. That is a concept that became truer to me during my 18 months of refugee casework. I went to bed every night praying for the well-being and protection of the people I talked to. It was the only way I could keep peace of mind; otherwise, the accounts I heard could have haunted me, and I wouldn't have been able to help them.
One woman's story of fleeing the civil war in Sierra Leone was so upsetting that even retelling it brought back the horrors of her vulnerability at the hands of the rebels. But it was my job as a caseworker to build her story into a file so that the US immigration officials would approve her case.
I remember praying as this young woman dissolved into tears and refused to say any more. It helped me to know that God is actually Father and Mother, as Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of the Monitor, wrote in "Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures": "Father-Mother is the name for Deity, which indicates His tender relationship to His spiritual creation" (p. 332).
I reached across the table and gently put my hand over hers. This touch seemed to comfort her. I told her that we needed to finish her story so I could complete her file and make a strong case for the immigration officials. I assured her that she was safe, and that her future was bright. She immediately responded. Calmly, she described the rest of her escape. Her case was reviewed the next day and approved for US resettlement. She found me that afternoon and thanked me. I thanked her for sharing her story, and wished her well in her new life.
The hope expressed in a hymn by Desiree Goyette in the "Christian Science Hymnal Supplement" (No. 444) is a benediction for all of us, whether we help in refugee affairs or send our prayers out for peace and security to all our brothers and sisters:
Governed by Love, you're safe and secure;
I am forever beside thee.
So rest and know wher-e'er you go,
Home and heav'n cannot be denied thee.
(c) Copyright 2009. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 The Christian Science Publishing Society
All Rights Reserved

567 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Los Angeles Times

June 7, 2018 Thursday  
Home Edition

A brutal U.S. refugee policy; 
Admissions are at a record low, except for those from some European countries.

BYLINE: Bill Frelick, Brian Root, Bill Frelick is the refugee rights program director at Human Rights Watch and Brian Root is the quantitative analyst at Human Rights Watch.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Opinion Desk; Part A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 739 words

It should be no surprise that the first year of the Trump presidency has been brutal for refugees. Not only are resettlement numbers down to the lowest levels recorded in the nearly 40-year history of the program, but the trends by nationality raise disturbing questions in light of the president's hateful and bigoted rhetoric about refugees and immigrants.
Reflecting his contempt for a program he has compared to a "great Trojan horse," the State Department's refugee bureau has been leaderless since Donald Trump became president. But that could change with the May 24 nomination of Ronald Mortensen to serve as assistant secretary of State for the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration. Mortensen is a retired foreign service officer with humanitarian-assistance experience, but he is also an outspoken critic of illegal immigration and a fellow at the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for restrictions on newcomers to the U.S. 
Mortensen's nomination has to be confirmed by members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The committee should take a close look at his writings.
Mortensen as accused Sen. John McCain of "dogged support for illegal aliens [that] has left the United States vulnerable to terrorists." In an op-ed for the Hill, he characterized the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program as rewarding Dreamers "for destroying the futures of innocent American children."
The senators should also ask Mortensen what he thinks about worrisome trends already in effect in the refugee program.
At the halfway point of this fiscal year, the United States had admitted only 10,548 refugees, a 74% drop compared with the same period in 2017. This at a time when Middle Eastern nations are struggling to maintain asylum for 5.6 million Syrian refugees, when more than 700,000 displaced Rohingya have poured from Burma into Bangladesh, and when most of the world's 20 million refugees are stuck in protracted situations with little prospect of returning home anytime soon.
The Trump administration has slowed down refugee admissions by throwing sand into the gears of resettlement processing. This has included "extreme vetting" and the redeployment of the Refugee Corps officers, who usually interview potential resettlement candidates in overseas camps, to the stepped-up efforts at the U.S. border to interview people making asylum claims.
The slowdown in resettlement and the falling overall numbers of refugee admissions tell only part of the story.
We examined the latest fiscal year 2018 refugee data against averages from the previous five years and found that the plunge in admissions has largely spared a handful of white-majority European countries.
The United States is currently admitting 110% of the European admissions it had typically resettled, while admitting only 22% of the usual numbers from the rest of the world.
Admissions are down from the five-year average by 67% from African countries, and about 80% from Middle Eastern/South Asian countries, East Asian countries, and Latin America/Caribbean countries.
Admissions from countries covered by the president's travel ban have virtually ceased -- refugees from Iran are at 2.2% of the five-year averages; from Syria, at 1.8%; from Somalia, 4.5%.
Admissions from Ukraine are up 109%, and Russia, 134%. This pattern is also reflected in regional targets. Halfway through the fiscal year, the European regional ceiling is already 87% filled, overwhelmingly by Ukrainian Christians, but the Middle East/South Asia ceiling is only 16% filled. And 72% of the refugees admitted from that region so far this year are non-Muslims, down from 54% in the previous five years.
"The process works like the assembly line in a factory," Barbara Strack, who retired in January as chief of the Refugee Affairs Division at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, told the New York Times. "This fiscal year, the administration essentially 'broke' the assembly line in multiple places at the same time."
President Trump has scapegoated refugees, called for a total ban on the entry of Muslims, and expressed an immigration preference for people from places like Norway. It's now up to the Senate to discover whether Mortensen will bend a truncated U.S. refugee resettlement program further toward the president's prejudices or consider restoring a system that has provided hope and rescue for some of the world's most persecuted and vulnerable people.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE DROP in resettlements comes as Middle Eastern nations struggle to accommodate 5.6 million Syrian refugees.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mohammed Badra EPA/Shutterstock 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion piece

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
All Rights Reserved

573 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 28, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOR REFUGEE WOMEN, AN EVEN HARDER ORDEAL

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, April 27

Refugee women suffer all the familiar problems of life in exile: a sense of isolation, powerlessness and loss of status. But a growing number of relief workers, physicians and psychologists say women who have left their homelands bear extra burdens as well.
''Women are the most vulnerable refugees,'' said Monique Bauer-Lagier, a Swiss doctor and politician who led a roundtable discussion on the topic organized by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva on Friday. And, she added, ''few measures are taken to respond to their specific needs.'' 
The United Nations body estimates that there are now more than 10 million refugees in Africa, Asia, Central America and elsewhere and that most of them - in some countries an overwhelming majority - are women.
Dr. Bauer-Lagier and the other 17 members of the forum stressed that women are chiefly responsible for preserving cultural and religious traditions and for maintaining a semblance of normal life in refugee settlements. It is women, they said, who keep the family together, see to its well-being, raise and educate the children and often carry out most of the household and agricultural tasks.
Yet in many refugee camps, said Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, former chief United States delegate to the United Nations, ''women are not fully valid, they do not have the right to represent themselves vis-a-vis the authorities, for example, even to register to receive rations by right.''
Refugee women, particularly those who are pregnant or have young children, face special nutritional and health problems that are often not met, participants said. In one camp in Thailand, said Angela Berry, a nutritionist with the United Nations body, three-quarters of the children of refugees have died in the last four years.
Refugee women may also want, but are not be provided with or allowed access to, contraceptives and other family planning materials.
And because illiteracy is much higher among refugee women than among men, it is more difficult for women to acquire the skills necessary for survival and self-sufficiency in foreign societies. As a result, some turn to prostitution and other illegal activities. Sexual discrimination, harassment and violence against refugee women is distressingly common, speakers said.
Women are also likely to have more difficulty than men finding nations that will grant them asylum. ''A lot of countries are willing to take able-bodied males who are about to be breadwinners but are not willing to take a woman who they think is going to be a dependent,'' said Dr. Kirkpatrick.
She said refugee women are ''often particularly ill-equipped to make their way in new societies because they probably didn't have equal educational rights in their own countries.''
Others at the meeting noted that women are often not involved in, and even unaware of, the reasons that they are in exile.
''Exile is often something they undergo as a result of someone else's decision,'' said Rosiska Darcy de Oliveira, a Brazilian lawyer and writer.
Gisele Halimi, a French lawyer, writer and delegate to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, added that rather than being participants in the international and civil struggles that uproot populations, women commonly become ''the booty of war.''
A disagreement that in Dr. Kirkpatrick's words ''remained latent throughout the discussion'' concerned the factors that push people into exile. Several participants cited ''neo-colonialism'' and the inequality of wealth between the industrialized nations and the developing world as largely to blame.
Maureen Reagan, a women's rights activist, a Republican Party consultant and daughter of the American President, placed the onus elsewhere.
''When we see the suffering of women and children refugees in the world today,'' she said, ''we must deplore the actions of governments which force people from their homes in search of freedom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

576 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 30, 2017 Monday

Save the Children Statement on U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 507  words

DATELINE: New York 


 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 In response to executive action by the United States Government regarding refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children, released the following statement: 


 

 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children, whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety. We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized; they are not terrorists.

 

 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want to build a better future in America.

 

 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely of women and children under 12, who make up 77 percent of the Syrian refugees in the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced displacement.

 

 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty in the world.

 

 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance, improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of ethnicity, religion or any other factor."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

577 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 30, 2017 Monday

Save the Children Statement on U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 507  words

DATELINE: New York 


 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 In response to executive action by the United States Government regarding refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children, released the following statement: 


 

 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children, whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety. We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized; they are not terrorists.

 

 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want to build a better future in America.

 

 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely of women and children under 12, who make up 77 percent of the Syrian refugees in the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced displacement.

 

 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty in the world.

 

 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance, improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of ethnicity, religion or any other factor."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

580 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 10, 2017 Friday

Washington: U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin Joins Effort to Block President Trump's Re-Issued Travel Ban

LENGTH: 330  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the Senator Tammy Baldwin, U.S Government has issued the following news release:

  

  After President Donald Trump re-issued his harmful restriction on refugees and immigrants from six Muslim-majority nations in Africa and the Middle East, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin joined a group of 15 Senators, led by Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT), in introducing legislation to reverse the executive order and block its implementation. Specifically, the bill would withhold funding to enforce the executive order. The bill also declares the executive order illegal based on the 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act, which banned discrimination against immigrants on the basis of national origin. 


 

 "America has a long history of welcoming refugees and immigrants, which has made our country stronger and speaks to the foundation of who we are as a people. It's also important to note that the refugee screening process is extremely rigorous and has worked," said Senator Baldwin. "I understand people's concerns about the security of our immigration, refugee and foreign traveler systems. That's why I've helped author legislation to strengthen those systems and improve our national security. Unfortunately, President Trump's blanket ban does the opposite. Even under this revised travel ban, I believe President Trump's actions will make ISIS stronger, weaken America's counterterrorism efforts and cost lives while also turning our back on our American values and the rest of the world. America is better than this. We must pass this legislation and block this executive order."

 

 In addition to Baldwin, original cosponsors of Murphy's bill include U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Tom Carper (D-DE), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Chris Coons (D-DE), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD).

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

585 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

November 27, 2010 Saturday

A small role in international drama; 

BYLINE: 

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 437 words

OUR VIEW (Lincoln Journal Star Editorial)
All Nebraskans should be aware of and take pride in the role their state has in determining whether or not a new country is created in Africa. Nebraska is one of the largest resettlement sites in the country for refugees from the war-torn country. For that reason, Omaha was selected as one of three sites in the country at which refugees from Southern Sudan will vote on whether to secede from the north. 
Stephen Hoth of the Sudanese Civil Society estimates there are about 10,000 Sudanese refugees living in Nebraska. Angela Gunther, coordinator for the Fusion Project, estimates there are about 3,000 Sudanese refugees in Lincoln.
The voting process in Nebraska is part of a multination effort that includes Sudan itself and seven other countries in addition to the United States. About 4 million Sudanese have been displaced by the 21-year war that has killed 2 million people.
Registration is now under way for the vote that will begin Jan. 9. As Maker Benjamin of Khartoum, Sudan, told the Journal Star, the vote means that some refugees must travel considerable distances in the United States to cast their ballots.
The referendum was part of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that brought an end to the fighting in 2005. African countries, most notably Kenya, were instrumental in negotiating the peace and helping to prepare for the referendum.
Those planning the vote estimate that about 5.5 million southerners inside and outside the country are eligible to vote. Sixty percent of those who register must vote to secede in order for the vote to be valid. In addition to the United States and Sudan, voting also will take place in Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Australia, Great Britain, Canada and Egypt.
Most international observers expect Southern Sudan to vote to secede. Northern Sudan is largely Arab and Muslim. Southern Sudan is largely Christian and animist, and populated by sub-Saharan ethnic groups.
There are fears that violence will break out before the vote. Meanwhile, there are reports of an upswing in violence in the Darfur region of Northern Sudan.
A major factor in continuing unrest is the question of future distribution of oil revenue. A separate vote is scheduled in the oil-producing region of Abyei on whether it will join the north or the south.
The hope of the international community is that a vote to secede will make permanent the peace that has existed for the past five years between the north and south. A small part of the international drama that will play out in the next few months is taking place at registration and voting sites here in Nebraska.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 Lincoln Journal Star
All Rights Reserved

593 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

January 31, 2010 Sunday  
FIRST EDITION

Woman steps up to help refugees from Africa Rwandan immigrant provides a connection in Columbia, Mo.

BYLINE: By Tracey Staight o Columbia Missourian

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: 0 

Columbia, Mo. - As the mother, father and five children step off the Greyhound, they greet Caritas Habimana with "God bless you" in their native language from Burundi.
"Imana Iguhezagire," each of them say as they gave Habimana a hug.
Habimana kneels and zips up the coats of Christina and Angela, two of the family's young girls, as others begin to load up their belongings. It takes two cars and a van to get everything they own back on the road to another home. 
Mariya Mpawengayo and Moyize Maniratanga are African refugees who brought their family to Columbia after struggling to find work, as well as integrating into American culture, in Jacksonville, Fla.
Maniratanga's brother Mukiwa Baramfumbashe had been living in Columbia for a year and asked Habimana to help relocate the family. Because they didn't come directly from overseas - this move was their second since arriving in the United States - an agency that serves refugees in 38 central Missouri counties would not be able to help.
Habimana, who came to America after surviving the genocide in Rwanda 15 years ago, has taken it upon herself to work with African refugees in Columbia and provide them with the support they need.
"I was lucky to come here," Habimana said. "But I wanted to do something for my people. And I prayed God every day for 15 years. I prayed until God showed me that around me there were people that needed help."
Habimana quit her day care job in February to work full time with African refugees. She works part time as an interpreter for the Columbia Housing Authority, teaches adult refugees English and operates an after-school program for children at the Imani Center.
She's also developing a center run by African refugees called Izuba, which means sunlight in the Rwandan dialect of Kirwanda, to help families like Mpawengayo and Maniratanga's.
The family has been on the move since escaping war-torn Burundi in 1972. They lived in Congo until war broke out in 1996 and found sanctuary in a United Nations refugee camp in Tanzania for 12 years before being sent to Florida.
Habimana worked with Christian Fellowship, a local church and Love Inc., a faith-based organization, to raise money for their bus tickets. A member of the Christian Fellowship donated a home. Other church members pitched in with clothes, blankets, furniture, cookware, a television and food.
"I just sat back and watched these miracles happen," Habimana said.
Most of the African refugees in Columbia were placed there by the United Nations from refugee camps. They don't have a choice about where they go, Habimana said.
Habimana had a much smoother transition after she came to the United States than most of those she's helping. She was speaking English fluently after one year, found a job at a local day care and raised three children.
Habimana has focused her energy on helping refugees from East African countries, such as Congo, Rwanda, Burundi and Kenya, who speak their local dialects but also share a common language of Kiswahili. All have fled their countries because of war.
Before traveling to Columbia, they register for refugee status. The United States invites a certain number of refugees, and the United Nations assigns a certain number to different resettlement agencies based on money and capacity.
Columbia's Refugee and Immigration Services, a nonprofit ministry sector of the Catholic Diocese in Jefferson City, has been placing refugees in central Missouri since 1974.
Refugee and Immigration Services offers a first-year intensive case management that includes transportation, day care, house calls, English classes and employment help. The agency also provides five months of housing.
After the first year, refugees can obtain their green card, and the organization assists each person through the process. Because of limited funds, all refugee services end after five years. The organization will help refugees apply for citizenship after five years, a service that's offered at a reduced rate.
But Refugee and Immigration Services can only do so much. Just this year, it received 215 refugees in the Columbia area compared with 155 in 2008 and 75 in 2007.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CHARLES LUDEKE  o  Associated Press/Missourian Photo -  Caritas Habimana (right) greets African refugee Mariya Mpawenayo at the Greyhound bus station in Columbia, Mo. 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

595 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Bismarck Tribune

June 5, 2007 Tuesday

Court rejects abortion law

SECTION: WIRE; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 368 words

EIN EL-HILWEH CAMP, Lebanon - Islamic militants clashed with Lebanese troops at the country's biggest Palestinian refugee camp Monday, threatening to open a southern battle front that could complicate the army's effort to defeat al-Qaida-inspired extremists in the north. 
Two government soldiers and a militant were reported killed in fighting at the Ein el-Hilweh camp in the southern city of Sidon, which began when the Jund al-Sham group attacked army outposts late Sunday.
The assault was seen as an attempt by Jund al-Sham to ease military pressure on an allied Islamic group, Fatah Islam, whose guerrillas have been battered by army attacks since May 20 in the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp near Tripoli in northern Lebanon.
WASHINGTON (AP) - Robert Zoellick, President Bush's choice to run the World Bank, is embarking on a global tour to Africa, Europe and Latin America as the United States seeks to mend relationships strained by the bank's outgoing president.
"I certainly want to leave no stone unturned in showing people that I'm serious in reaching out to hear their perspectives and views. I think it shows courtesy and respect," Zoellick, currently a vice chairman at Wall Street giant Goldman Sachs, told reporters Monday.
He plans to reach out to government leaders, financial officials and others about issues facing the poverty-fighting institution and its programs in the developing world.
"My immediate goal is simple: I want to listen and to learn," Zoellick said.
LANSING, Mich. (AP) - A federal appeals court Monday rejected Michigan's attempt to ban a procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion, ruling the law unconstitutional because it could also prohibit other abortion procedures.
A three-judge panel of the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeal in Cincinnati said the Michigan Legislature would have been "virtually guaranteed" a favorable result on appeal had it copied an Ohio law that the 6th Circuit already has upheld.
"It instead opted to use statutory language that pushed almost every boundary that the Supreme Court has imposed for these types of laws," the judges said.
Previous attempts by Michigan lawmakers to stop the procedure were struck down by federal courts in 1997 and 2001.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
All Rights Reserved

597 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

LENGTH: 1758  words

DATELINE: New York 


Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following house proceeding:  
 SENATE RESOLUTION 195--RECOGNIZING JUNE 20, 2017, AS ``WORLD REFUGEE DAY'' Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Coons, Mr. Markey, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Booker, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. Brown) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations: Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution to mark World Refugee Day, and to address the ongoing displacement crisis across the globe. War, conflict and persecution have forced millions of people to leave their homes, creating more refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced people than at any other time in history. Today, there are more than 65 million displaced men, women, and children worldwide, the highest level ever recorded in history.  
To put this number into perspective--if the global displaced population were a country, it would be the 21st largest country, more populated than the United Kingdom. [[Page S3653]] The global displacement trends we are witnessing now, due to conflict, severe human rights abuses, and climate change, are not going away. U.S. leadership in responding to these crises, whether it is the immense suffering of refugees from South Sudan or the plight of the internally-displaced in Syria and Iraq, is critical. How we respond--or whether we respond at all--will undoubtedly shape the landscape and the lives of future generations for years to come. The United States has a long and proud history of providing safe harbor to the world's most vulnerable refugees--women and children, survivors of torture and other violence, and those with severe medical conditions. This included after World War II and after the fall of Saigon, when we resettled hundreds of thousands of refugees. At the same time, we take the security of our citizens seriously. That is the reason the United States has the most rigorous refugee screening process in the world, involving the Department of Defense, Department of State, Department of Homeland Security, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and National Counter Terrorism Center. The process includes biometric checks, medical screenings, forensic testing of documents, DNA testing for family reunification cases, and in-person interviews with highly trained homeland security officials. The U.S. Refugee Resettlement program has been and should remain open to those of all nationalities and religions who face persecution. The Trump Administration's proposals that would have the U.S. State Department disqualify refugees from protection based on their nationality or religion fly in the face of the very principles this Nation was built upon. They also contradict the legacy of leadership our country has historically demonstrated, and dishonor our shared humanity. It is clear, however, that the Trump Administration is determined to undermine longstanding American tradition and values, and in doing so they weaken our National security. As we all know, one of President Trump's first executive orders sought to drastically reduce the number of refugees entering the United States and turn away refugees from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. This un-American policy, rooted in fear not fact, cannot be tolerated. We collectively must reject the misplaced notion that some refugees are more deserving of protection than others. Again and again, the Federal courts are signaling to the White House a real need for the President to immediately rescind his discriminatory executive order targeting Muslim refugees and travelers. Even while stayed by the courts, President Trump's executive orders have made America less safe, damaged our relationships with our allies, and harmed countless numbers of law-abiding citizens, travelers, and their families. America is a compassionate nation steeped with a history of welcoming immigrants and refugees. I was proud to join Members of Congress who filed legal briefs in opposition to the President's discriminatory executive orders, along with HIAS in Silver Spring, Maryland, whose motto is to ``welcome the stranger'' and ``protect the refugee.'' Recently the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit provided a valuable check and balance on the President's authority. The court correctly pointed out that the President's most recent Executive Order ``speaks with vague words of national security, but in context drips with religious intolerance, animus, and discrimination'' which violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. No American president is above the law. Turning away refugees--whether they are from Syria or Somalia, Burma or Iraq, whether they are Muslims or Christians, Hindus or Jews--means turning our backs on the international humanitarian system and the mechanisms of stability and security that are the bedrocks of international order. Refugees remain powerful ambassadors of the American Dream and our Nation's founding principles of equal opportunity, religious freedom, and liberty and justice for all. The Trump Administration again revealed its determination to erode American leadership with the release of its Fiscal Year 2018 Budget request. Their FY18 budget represents a wholesale repudiation of U.S. global leadership on virtually every critical matter, including humanitarian assistance and protection of the most vulnerable populations. The President's budget called for a 44 percent cut in humanitarian assistance--a truly horrifying reduction made even more appalling given the level of global need. According to a group of leading NGOs, the human cost of these cuts could be staggering. The proposed 18 percent cut to the Migration and Refugee Assistance account could result in over 3.5 million refugees and internally displaced persons not receiving assistance globally, including about 1 million in the Middle East and 1.1 million in Africa. The United States has been a beacon of hope for so many around the world for centuries, and it is imperative that we remain so for others in this century, and beyond. We need to be unified on this and the United States must lead by example. It is a universal human desire to live in peace and security and to create a better life for our families and loved ones. We must do our part to facilitate that. We need to keep our doors--and our hearts--open to those who so desperately need safe harbor. S. Res. 195 Whereas World Refugee Day is an opportunity to acknowledge the courage, strength, and determination of women, men, and children forced to flee their homes due to conflict, violence, and persecution; Whereas according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (referred to in this Resolution as ``UNHCR'')-- (1) there are more than 65,600,000 displaced people worldwide, the highest level ever recorded, including nearly 22,500,000 refugees, more than 40,300,000 internally displaced people, and 2,800,000 people seeking asylum; (2) children account for 51 percent of the global refugee population, millions of whom are unable to access basic services, including education; (3) 10,300,000 people were newly displaced due to conflict or persecution in 2016; (4) more than 5,500,000 refugees have fled Syria since the start of the conflict, and more than 6,300,000 people are displaced inside Syria; (5) since January 2014, more than 3,000,000 Iraqis fleeing violence have been internally displaced, and 257,000 refugees have fled to neighboring countries; (6) South Sudan has the world's fastest-growing refugee crisis, which is now the largest refugee crisis in Africa, with more than 1,800,000 refugees, including 1,000,000 children; (7) increasing violence in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras has led to a growing number of unaccompanied child refugees, who are particularly vulnerable to sexual violence, human trafficking, and kidnapping; and (8) ongoing conflict, violence, and persecution have resulted in the displacement of millions in Ukraine, Colombia, and the Central African Republic; Whereas 84 percent of the world's refugees are hosted in developing regions, with more than 28 percent hosted in the world's least developed countries; Whereas refugees who are women and children are often at greater risk of violence, human trafficking, exploitation, and gender-based violence; Whereas the United States resettlement program is a life- saving solution critical to global humanitarian efforts, which reflects American values, strengthens global security, and alleviates the burden placed on front-line host countries; Whereas refugees are the most vetted travelers to enter the United States and are subject to extensive screening checks, including in person interviews, biometric data checks, and multiple interagency checks; Whereas refugees contribute to their communities by starting businesses, paying taxes, and sharing their cultural traditions; and Whereas refugees contribute more than they consume in state-funded services, including schooling and health care: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate-- (1) reaffirms the bipartisan commitment of the United States to promote the safety, health, and well-being of the millions of refugees; (2) recognizes those individuals who have risked their lives working individually and for nongovernmental organizations and international agencies, such as UNHCR, to provide life-saving assistance and protection for people displaced by conflict around the world; (3) underscores the importance of the United States Refugee Resettlement Program as a critical tool for United States global leadership; (4) calls upon the United States Government-- (A) to continue providing robust funding for refugee protection overseas and resettlement in the United States; (B) to uphold its international leadership role in responding to displacement crises with humanitarian assistance and protection of the most vulnerable populations; and (C) to alleviate the burden on refugee host countries through humanitarian and development support while maintaining the [[Page S3654]] United States' long-standing tradition of resettling the most vulnerable refugees regardless of their country of origin or religious beliefs; (5) reaffirms the goals of World Refugee Day; and (6) reiterates the strong commitment of the United States to seek to protect the millions of refugees who live without material, social, or legal protections. 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

606 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

March 2, 2008 Sunday  
CITY Edition

Event offers chance for Lincolnites, African natives to share information

BYLINE: LISA MUNGER, LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: LINCOLN, NE 

A tall, lithe man dressed in a white Buba hoisted his cane overhead heralding two women, also dressed in traditional African wear, as they circled rhythmically. 
They were among about 40 attendees at the African Culture Event held Saturday in Lincoln's Asian Center.  
"We wanted to have an exchange of cultural information between African refugees in Lincoln and the community," said Jason Varga, coordinator for the event's sponsor, the Fusion Project. 
More than an exposition of African food, beverages, music and artwork, the festival was one reflection of the community's response to increasing numbers of African refugees, many from Sudan, who have settled in Lincoln recently.
Originally from South Africa, Linda Vermooten moved to the United States years ago.  She snacked on a samoosa, a deep-fried triangular pocket of bread filled with vegetables, and listened to the drumbeats she used to enjoy in her native country.
Vermooten said in the years she's lived in Lincoln she has watched the community change to a major site for refugees and immigrants from her native Africa.
Varga said Fusion aims to assist refugees in becoming self-sufficient by giving them information to help in securing jobs, health care and community services.
Many African refugees are from rural areas, where making an appointment to see the doctor was not customary, he said.  
"People came and would wait until the medical provider could see them; if they weren't seen one day, they would come back the next," he said.  
Such a custom creates difficulties for refugees in understanding the American system, Varga said.  
Some refugees use the emergency room improperly - for routine care, he said.  
Fusion works to bridge cultural gaps like this one to make refugees and medical service providers understand the genesis of the problem.
For some refugees, communication barriers are resolved in other ways.
"I communicate my message through music," said Michael Opoku, a Ghanaian who has lived in Lincoln since 2001. 
"I want Americans to know that kids are capable of learning other cultures if given the chance." 
Opoku helped provide the music at the festival, playing traditional drums. 
He works as an artist-in-residence throughout the country, including stints at Doane College, teaching African drumming and talking about African culture to students.  
Opoku concurred with Varga's assessment of the challenges facing refugees settling in Lincoln.
"Even if you have a college degree, or a medical degree for that matter, from your own country, it's not recognized here," he said. "Some people leave  Lincoln for cities with more factory jobs."
For Opoku, celebrations such as Saturday's help preserve his culture as he lives in America.
"Drumming provides links to our roots, to ancestors who fought oppression, fled it and settled," Opoku said. "It celebrates freedom."
Reach Lisa Munger at lmunger@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shadows of visitors to the Asian Community Center stretch across the floor where Nick Akume (left) and Michael Opoku play the drums as part of the African Culture Celebration. GWYNETH ROBERTS/Lincoln Journal Star

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 Lincoln Journal Star,
All Rights Reserved

608 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

June 16, 1998 Tuesday

LACK OF MONEY TO CLOSE U'S REFUGEE STUDIES CENTER

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 272 words

The University of Minnesota's Refugee Studies Center has run out of money and will close at the end of June.
The center, which was created in response to the large influx of Southeast Asian immigrants to Minnesota, has failed to develop a strong research program that generates the money to continue, said Michael Metcalf, who oversees the center as director of the Institute of International Studies and Programs. 
"We (the institute) took it on as an at-risk project with the understanding that it would seek outside funding; the center has been unsuccessful in doing that," he said.
In the meantime, university officials are trying to find another place to house the center's research collection on refugees.
Immigrant advocacy groups have mounted a letter-writing campaign to try to save the center.
"When I first heard it was closing, I was shocked," said Hean Her, executive director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans. "The center over the years has worked to build a relationship with the refugee community, and it has given voice to the needs of the community."
Since its beginning in 1980, the center has grown to encompass the study of refugees from Africa, Central America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and other refugees from Asia.
"In the mind of the Hmong, this is the only place in the state of Minnesota where they can come and find materials to trace their history and culture," said Masami Suga, a program associate at the center. "It is especially significant for Hmong people who came here very young, or who were born here, and may not know much about their history in Laos."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press 
All Rights Reserved

609 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

January 14, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Leo Cherne, Leader of Agency For Refugees, Is Dead at 86

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN  

SECTION: Section C;  Page 21;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk  

LENGTH: 872 words

Leo Cherne, who turned the International Rescue Committee into the largest agency in the world for the relief and resettlement of refugees, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
A lawyer, economist and businessman, Mr. Cherne became chairman of the I.R.C. in 1951, succeeding Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian. The organization had grown out of modest efforts to rescue a few thousand endangered people from Nazi-occupied France in the early days of World War II. Under Mr. Cherne, the New York-based committee eventually helped hundreds of thousands of displaced, dispossessed and desperate people, first in Europe and then all over the world in places like Bangladesh, Southeast Asia, Latin America, the Horn of Africa, Afghanistan, Rwanda and Burundi. 
When Mr. Cherne was given the United States Medal of Freedom in 1984, President Reagan cited the "moral passion" he had shown in "serving the cause of human freedom, especially through his work on behalf of refugees."
Mr. Cherne was also an adviser to nine presidents, a close friend of William Casey, the former head of the C.I.A., and from 1973 to 1991 a member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, serving as its chairman during the Bush Administration. As a member of this low-profile but high-impact panel, Mr. Cherne helped create the so-called Team B, a group of experts headed by Richard Pipes, the Harvard historian, which disputed C.I.A. assessments of Soviet military capabilities and intentions as too dovish; the committee's more alarming estimates bolstered the positions of the strongest proponents of increased United States military expenditures.
Lionel Olmer, a lawyer and a former Undersecretary of Commerce, said that during his last hospital visit to his friend of 29 years, as the two men talked about human rights and refugees, Mr. Cherne told him, "I hope I'll also be remembered as a cold warrior."
Andrew Smith, who is working on an authorized biography of Mr. Cherne, said he was a man of great reticence and discretion. "He knew that the way to get and maintain influence in Washington was to get things done and then to keep quiet about them," Mr. Smith said. He added: "It certainly worked well for him, giving him access to every President since Roosevelt. Here was a poor boy from the Bronx, without money or family or influence, who became the consummate insider."
Mr. Cherne had been a Democrat since his youth but in 1980 became a figure in Democrats for Reagan because of the candidate's views on national security.
Leo Cherne was born in New York on Sept. 18, 1912, to Max and Dora Cherne, immigrants from Russia. His father had a photography store in the Bronx. He attended public schools, New York University and New York Law School.
After jobs in several law firms, in 1935 he teamed up with a Bible salesman from Kansas named Carl Hovgard to establish a company that published and distributed Mr. Cherne's advice to businessmen on how to contend with the new Social Security law. The book became extremely successful, and the company grew into the Research Institute of America, which offered Mr. Cherne's assessments about how world and political events would affect business.
At war's end, General Douglas MacArthur took him to Japan to work on the defeated nation's economic recovery.
The Research Institute of America was providing Mr. Cherne with a comfortable income, and his yearly economic and political forecast regularly drew a thousand listeners to the Waldorf Astoria. He joined the board of Freedom House and he became the chairman of the I.R.C., which was in financial difficulty at the time. His aggressive fund-raising staved off collapse and allowed for steady expansion.
In 1953, Mr. Cherne participated in a radio program, "The Town Meeting of the Air," on which he debated Senator Joseph McCarthy. Though Mr. Cherne shared Senator McCarthy's antipathy toward communism and its proponents, he strongly challenged and scorned McCarthyism's demagogic methods and contempt for truth and civil rights.
Three years later, when Soviet tanks moved into Budapest to crush the Hungarian uprising, Mr. Cherne went to the Hungarian border to bear witness. On his return, he appeared on the Ed Sullivan television program, poignantly describing refugees trying to evade tanks as they fled their occupied land. The appearance evoked an outpouring of contributions. It was the first of many such missions and public pleas by an essentially reticent man.
While working daily for the I.R.C., consulting often, if anonymously, in Washington, and writing economic analysis, Mr. Cherne also became an accomplished sculptor. Many of his busts are on prominent public display. He retired from the I.R.C. as chairman in 1991 but remained chairman emeritus and visited his office regularly until his recent illness. He received many decorations, among them the French Legion of Honor, Germany's Commander Cross and the United Nations Gold Medal of Peace.
Mr. Cherne is survived by his daughter, Gail Gambino of Baiting Hollow, N.Y., a brother, Jack Cherne of Santa Monica, Calif., and a granddaughter, Erica Gambino of Bridgehampton, N.Y.
  
http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Leo Cherne

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leo Cherne (The New York Times, 1983)      

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company

613 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Denver Post

January 2, 2017 Monday  
MON REGIONAL Edition

Refugees find safe haven in Boy Scouts

BYLINE: Thomas Peipert

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 770 words

EVERGREEN Boy Scouts Jean Tuyishime and Moise Tuyikunde sit around a crackling campfire under a canopy of stars, joking and teasing each other as adolescent brothers tend to do. Only 2 1/2 years ago, they were a world away, living at the crowded Gihembe refugee camp, built on a sprawling and dusty expanse of northern Rwanda.
The brothers were born in the camp after their parents fled violence in 1996 in what was then known as Zaire. They relocated with their family to the Denver area in 2014, and they gradually assimilated into their new surroundings, learning to speak enough English to get by and signing up for a quintessential American experience Boy Scouts. 
But the troop Jean, 15, and Moise, 12, joined is not like many others in the United States. Troop 1532 is composed almost entirely of refugees who hail from far flung places such as Burma, Rwanda and Nepal.
At campouts, traditional American food such as hot dogs and trail burgers is replaced by fish head stew, fire roasted corn and Chatpate, a popular Nepalese street snack. S'mores are still a staple.
While the troop deals with challenges and problems unique to the refugee population, its leaders say it also helps kids adjust to American culture while providing an additional refuge.
"It's somewhere where they can be totally unafraid to be their authentic self," said Justin Wilson, one of the troop's leaders and the executive director of the nonprofit group Scouts for Equality.
The political climate seems stacked against refugees and immigrants in general, he said at the recent campout, where multiple languages filled the air and Scouts kicked a soccer ball between several well worn A frame tents.
"I think it's really important for them to see that people care about them, that people are going out of their way to provide a service for refugees," Wilson said.
Troop 1532, formed in 2014, also provides a blueprint for other Boy Scout groups to attract some of the tens of thousands of refugees who could make the United States home in the coming years.
It's unclear how many of the nation's 2.3 million Scouts are refugees, but "few programs are as equipped to help children learn and embrace American culture," Effie Delimarkos, a Boy Scouts of America spokeswoman, said.
"Scouting also helps build resiliency in children that have lived through more than any child should have to bear," she said, noting the organization emphasizes "duty to country and proactive citizenship."
But Wilson and Dr. P.J. Parmar, a physician who started the troop in conjunction with a refugee clinic he runs in the Denver area, say the kids' varied backgrounds present unique challenges that more homogenous troops don't face.
Difficulties keeping adult leaders and maintaining membership make it hard to focus on earning merit badges and advancing in rank.
"Almost none of these guys know what an Eagle Scout is. Their parents certainly don't," Wilson said.
Compounding that, many of those parents moved to the U.S. with very little money. They work long, odd hours, which makes it hard to plan meetings. Parmar, who recruits kids through his clinic, said many of the Scouts have no reliable way to get to the meetings, so he decided to gather only for camping trips.
Then there's instilling discipline and respect in the Scouts, some of whom are still adjusting to a new culture.
On the late summer camping trip, several Scouts were caught smoking cigarettes and marijuana, and at summer camp near Colorado Springs, some were accused of theft.
"I think a lot of it, especially at summer camp, is they're under a microscope," Wilson said. "They're not a white, suburban troop. So if they do anything, it's going to get noticed, where if another kid does it, it might slip under the radar."
Parmar says he tries to connect with the boys by speaking on their level.
"I have an advantage because I'm from a minority background," he said. He often tells the boys, "The bar is a little bit higher for you guys because you don't get the benefit of the doubt in this society."
Jean's father, Jean Batacoka, a 37 year old housekeeper with five children, says the efforts of Wilson and Parmar have had a meaningful effect on his kids.
"What they do down there is not just leadership, because they learn discipline, how to behave, how to respect people who are older than them," he said through a Kinyarwanda translator. "I think it's a really good thing for them, and I can see something is happening."
For his son Jean, that quality seems to have taken root and could serve a generation to come.
"I want to grow up and be a leader like P.J. and Justin so I can help other kids," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 05, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Justin Mbelechi, 13, and Bidesh Magar, 14, far right, roast corn at their campsite in Evergreen. The two belong to a Boy Scout troop in Colorado that is made up almost entirely of refugees. Thomas Peipert, The Associated Press
Justin Mbelechi, a 13-year-old refugee from Africa, jumps through the frigid water of Echo Lake, south of Idaho Springs. He is a member of Colorado Boy Scout Troop 1532, which is made up almost entirely of refugees. Photos by Thomas Peipert, The Associated Press
Scouts and leaders from Troop 1532 pose for a group photo in Evergreen after a camping trip.
Jean Tuyishime, 15, center, and brother Moise Tuyikunde, 12, right, relax in a hammock at their campsite in Evergreen. The brothers were born in a refugee camp in Rwanda after their parents fled violence in 1996 in what was then known as Zaire. They relocated with their family to the Denver area in 2014.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Denver Post
All Rights Reserved

616 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

September 1, 2004 Wednesday  
Community Edition

Community notebook; 
Wesconnett school reunion Sept. 11

BYLINE: Sandy Strickland, Staff writer

SECTION: WESTSIDE; Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 467 words

A documentary on The Lost Boys of Sudan will be shown at the San Marco Theatre, 1961 San Marco Blvd., Saturday, Sept. 11, and Sunday, Sept. 12. The award-winning film by Megan Mylan and Jon Shenk follows the journey of two Sudanese refugees from childhood to their current life in America.
It starts at 7 p.m. followed by a special performance by several refugees living in Jacksonville and a question-and-answer session. 
Thousands of boys and young men fled the war-torn African nation, traveling for more than two years and 1,000 miles to find refuge. About 4,000 were granted refugee status in the United States in 2001. With the help of the United Nations and Lutheran Social Services, 100 came to Jacksonville.
Fresh Ministries has established the Alliance for the Lost Boys of Sudan, a foundation to assist with medical, dental and educational needs of refugees here and still in Africa. Proceeds from the showing will benefit the alliance's programs.
Admission is $15, and advanced tickets are required. For information or to order tickets, call 363-9821.
-- Wesconnett Elementary School is celebrating its 23rd annual reunion with a covered-dish luncheon and time for reminiscing from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 11.
The tradition began in 1982 when Jim Faulkner invited his classmates, teachers and principals to a reunion at his Bradford County home. It mushroomed to include people who had grown up in the Southwest Jacksonville community during the 1930s and '40s.
When the gathering got too big for his house, it moved to the classic red brick school at 5710 Wesconnett Blvd.
Those attending the reunion are asked to bring old school-related photos if they have them, said Patricia Carter, who is helping plan the event.
They also are asked to bring a covered dish for the luncheon, which starts at 11:30 a.m. Paper goods, drinks and serving utensils will be provided. There will be a $4 donation to cover expenses. For information call 771-0859, 781-3870 or 284-9627.
-- Recently retired Jacksonville educators will be honored by the Duval County Retired Teachers Association Thursday at the Mary Singleton Center, 150 E. First St. Social hour is at 9:20 a.m. followed by the meeting at 10:15 a.m.
Charles "Skip" Cramer, newly appointed executive director of Jacksonville Community Council Inc., will speak on the theme "Me, Myself and Others." The council works to improve the quality of life in Northeast Florida by convening groups of residents to identify significant community issues each year for in-depth study.
For information call Nathaniel Davis at 354-0750.
Submit items for Westside Community Notebook to Sandy Strickland at The Florida Times-Union, P.O. Box 1949, Jacksonville, FL 32231, or fax 359-4478. For details, e-mail sandy.strickland@jacksonville.com or call 359-4128.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 The Florida Times-Union

617 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

January 31, 2018 Wednesday

Letters to the Editor: Cut international spending, focus on domestic issues

SECTION: Pg. A6

LENGTH: 740 words

Cut foreign spending, target domestic issues
Prime Minister Trudeau's recent pledge of $180 million to the Global Partnership for Education Fund to help support education in developing countries seems very generous, especially during fiscally challenging economic times when budgets are not balanced and Canadians have their own domestic issues that are currently unresolved.
While Prime Minister Trudeau wants to globally help people who have been marginalized in other countries, what about those who are being marginalized in his own country like my 87-year-old mother who has been on waiting list for over a year to find a family doctor? 
Women, children and the elderly are the most vulnerable in our society. I am so glad that the Prime Minister has a $180 million of borrowed money to give that will help the needs of non-Canadians first, while Canadians who have paid taxes their whole life do not have access to a family physician.
It is my opinion that during periods of challenging economic times the Prime Minister should solve his own domestic issues first before taking the issues of the world on at Canadian's expense.
Stuart Lyons
Dieppe 
U.S. has lost standing on global stage 
It's so sad that a country of the United States' stature should be consumed with the State of The Union that the current POTUS delivered on Tuesday, though not with the same focus as its traditional airing.
Never mind the pungent and lingering stench on the domestic front; it won't be the same for foreign trust and engagement for a considerable time now - I would argue until every current head of state has moved on, taking with them the distasteful memory of their interaction with this clownish and corrupt administration.
There are already policy changes and trade alliances globally that will limit or exclude U.S. participation, much less the perception that the stability of their political system has been so fantastically compromised (irrespective of whether his election was legitimate or impacted by foreign actors), and will continue to be globally suspect well into the future even if successors are foreign policy wunderkinds.
The voluntary climate change initiative is here to stay whether the time frame is extended/judiciously adhered to or not; Mexico's deal with South America's Mercosur and Canada's signing on to the TPP without Trump's constant flip-flopping predicated on a 'better deal' for the U.S., for example - a Wharton 'not-graduate' who hasn't the foggiest notion to what extent current deals are beneficial to the U.S., e.g. NAFTA. 
He just likes spouting the word 'deal' as if it awarded him some cachet as a 'negotiator'.
Terry Gorman
Moncton
Israel's refugee issue similar to U.S.
In the years before 2012, many African refugees traveled on foot from their countries to the Sinai and then on to Israel. The majority were Christian Eritreans.
In 2012, the Israeli government installed a border fence in the Sinai preventing refugees from entering Israel. This caused refugees to seek a new escape route. So began the attempts to cross the Mediterranean Sea to Italy from Libya.
Today there are 37,300 asylum seekers living in Israel, of which 85 per cent are Eritreans. Since Eritrea has been involved in conflicts with other African countries and rebel groups, the government has forced all Eritrean men to be in the army permanently. This has forced many to return to their country where they will be branded as traitors and executed.
Israel does not want these refugees and Prime Minister Netanyahu calls them "infiltrators." The Israeli government announced on Jan. 1, 2018 that it would relocate these "infiltrators" to countries in Africa.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees interviewed 80 refugees who had been relocated from Israel to sub-Saharan Africa. These refugees had traveled through countries involved in conflicts and finally reached Libya. During this journey they reported abuse, torture and extortion before risking their lives crossing the Mediterranean Sea to Italy.
This is a surprising step for Israel to take, since the State of Israel was formed by refugees and immigrants from other countries after the Second World War. Also, the persecution suffered by the Jewish people makes it hard to understand why they would do it to others.
It is interesting that President Trump has copied Prime Minister Netanyahu actions.
Jean L MacDonald
Quispamsis !@COPYRIGHT= 2018 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

618 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 27, 2017 Friday

Save the Children Statement on Potential U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 511  words

DATELINE: New York 


 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 In response to reports of a potential executive action by the United States Government regarding refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children, released the following statement: 


 

 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children, whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety. We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized; they are not terrorists.

 

 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want to build a better future in America.

 

 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely of women and children under 12, who make up 67 percent of the Syrian refugees in the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced displacement.

 

 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty in the world.

 

 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance, improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of ethnicity, religion or any other factor."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

619 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 27, 2017 Friday

Save the Children Statement on Potential U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 511  words

DATELINE: New York 


 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 In response to reports of a potential executive action by the United States Government regarding refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children, released the following statement: 


 

 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children, whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety. We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized; they are not terrorists.

 

 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want to build a better future in America.

 

 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely of women and children under 12, who make up 67 percent of the Syrian refugees in the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced displacement.

 

 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty in the world.

 

 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance, improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of ethnicity, religion or any other factor."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

623 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

October 1, 2014 Wednesday

'The Good Lie' is a survival story - and Minnesota woman's story

BYLINE: By Chris Hewitt chewitt@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Movies

LENGTH: 668 words

After a tumultuous childhood in Sudan, Kuoth Wiel spent most of her life in Minnesota, growing up in Faribault and graduating last year from Augsburg College in Minneapolis.
But here's where she has been in the past couple of weeks: Toronto, Dallas, Boston, Miami, Orlando, New York, Washington, D.C., and Los Angeles, where she now lives.
"I haven't had any downtime in any of them," the actress and model said, calling from the back seat of a limo in Dallas. 
All of the activity is to promote her movie "The Good Lie," which opens Friday in New York and Los Angeles, and Oct. 25 in the Twin Cities.
A drama about the so-called "Lost Boys of Sudan," it features Wiel in the supporting role of a lost girl who is separated from her friends when they travel from a Kenyan refugee camp to America.
Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon has a supporting role, too, as a social worker who helps the young people.
Wiel's character, Abital, has special resonance for her because her father, a U.N. aid worker, was killed in the Sudanese civil war and her brother was a lost boy who brought the rest of his family to the United States in 1998.
"I have siblings I don't even know where they are now," said Wiel, 26, who was reminded of the strife in her homeland when protests erupted there last year.
"Everyone is displaced throughout the whole country. I've been talking to people in refugee camps, and it's a story that we are not hearing in the media.
"When things started happening again (last December)," she said, "my uncle called me, and I could hear gunshots in the background. It brought me back to the feeling of war again. It's a weird feeling to be promoting a movie that is so fresh to me and that is also happening again right now."
Although it begins in wartime, "The Good Lie" is mostly about four young people and their attempt to adapt to a new culture. Parallels could be made to how Wiel -- fresh from Minnesota and a rigorous series of auditions -- had to adapt to life on movie sets in South Africa and Georgia, where she had her own trailer and worked regularly with Witherspoon.
"She helped me relate things to regular life so it feels real, even though I have all of these cameras on me and the situation is so unreal," said Wiel, who said the main difference between her and her character is that Wiel is much more out- spoken.
Still, there is plenty she can relate to in the movie, beginning with the journey from Africa to the United States.
"Every time I see it, it's emotional because of the fact that it's so much like my own personal story, and it's so well-balanced. There is some comedy but that is never allowed to overpower the emotions," said Wiel, whose first name is pronounced like "couth."
"I think it's going to come in handy. It's going to help refugees in Kakuma (the refugee camp in Kenya from which the film's lost boys emigrated) and in the U.S. People see the movie and say, 'Oh my gosh. How can I help?' We've set up The Good Lie Foundation and we tell people that even one dollar will go far."
One irony of the similarities between Abital and Wiel is that they could blind Hollywood to the differences. Casting agents may assume that the accent Wiel learned for the film is her actual accent. In real life, she sounds like a person from Minnesota, not someone from Sudan.
"People always ask about the accent," Wiel said with a chuckle. "I guess it's a compliment that it feels so real for them that they think the actors are our characters."
Wiel is taking acting classes, meeting with talent managers and modeling to prepare for whatever comes next in her already-surprising career. Meanwhile, she's eager to see how audiences respond to "The Good Lie."
"I hope people will see that it's not just a Sudanese story or an American story," Wiel said. "It's a story of humanity. It's about love and togetherness and faith that gives people resilience. The characters stuck together and that's how they survived."
Chris Hewitt can be reached at 651-228-5552 or follow him on twitter.com/ChrisHMovie .

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Minnesotan Kuoth Wiel plays Abital, a girl who is separated from friends fleeing Sudan. (Courtesy photo: Bob Mahone)
Kuoth Wiel, second from left, in a scene from "The Good Lie," a drama about the so-called Lost Boys of Sudan. It opens Friday, Oct. 3, 2014, in New York and Los Angeles, and Oct. 25 in the Twin Cities. (Courtesy photo: Kelly Walsh)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 St. Paul Pioneer Press
All Rights Reserved

624 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

July 21, 2018 Saturday 12:03 EST 

How to Make a Life From Scratch

BYLINE: Elizabeth Alexander

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1484 words


HIGHLIGHT: My husband was no different from so many other refugees who have to leave their homes.

A few weeks ago, I attended an Eritrean Orthodox Christian and American Orthodox Jewish wedding in New York. The Eritreans came from all over the globe, where war and conflict had scattered them over the past two generations, and from all over the country.
The Eritrean women came in their traditional white dresses and shawls called netsela; the men were elegant and grave in their dark Western suits. The wine glass was smashed; the Jewish family linked arms and danced in a circle; the Eritreans danced a circle dance called the kuda. The Jewish men hoisted the bride high on a chair; the Eritreans ululated in the temple.
It was a complex, beautiful day. Centuries of tradition came together. The bride and groom could meet in America because war had scattered African families as the Holocaust had scattered Jewish families, and all made themselves anew in their new space.
The huppah is the canopy carried in a Jewish wedding. It symbolizes shelter for the newlyweds. The sides of the huppah are always open, which lets in light and air but also people, so that the home of the newlyweds is shared and the pot of stone soup is shared, invoking the tent where Abraham welcomed visitors and angels. Let your house be wide open, and open on all sides to welcome wayfarers. 
My side is the Eritrean side, though I am not Eritrean; my late husband was. The bride was the niece who became my daughter when she came to America at 16 to live with us. War made it impossible for her to stay where she was, and her mother said to me, "She is your daughter now," while I was pregnant with what I thought was my first child.
So life goes on, and families expand, and the blessings and responsibilities of others come your way.
Critical thinking develops when you go outside of your comfort zone, when you eat a different bread from the one you grew up with. Challah, chapati, hot-water cornbread, pita, injera, baguette -- how wonderful to eat a different bread, a differently spiced meal. How wonderful to sleep next to someone who might be dreaming in a language different from your own.
Picture this wedding photo: My 10-year-old great-nephew, Maxie, who is Scottish and Eritrean, lives in Aberdeen, Scotland, and traveled to see his auntie get married. In the photograph, he wears a kilt in the plaid of his father's clan, and atop his head is a tartan yarmulke made specially for the occasion for him to wear in the temple. He has the sweetest shy smile you have ever seen, and he is learning to dance an Eritrean dance with the older men in the family.
This is the beauty of diaspora, of culture crossing, of not knowing what is around the corner, of making life anew and something new after disruption. I think he may be the only Scottish-Eritrean boy with a tartan skullcap in the whole wide world. But surely he is not the last.
This family is my family because my husband came to the United States in 1981 from Eritrea, a small country in East Africa, after decades of an independence war and a scourge called the Red Terror. He was a refugee, a person who has been forced to leave his country to escape war, persecution or natural disaster.
What do you picture when you hear the word "refugee"? What are we being asked to picture as we listen to the constant description of America as an unwelcoming place, a house with doors and windows locked shut?
Ficre Ghebreyesus, my late husband, the refugee I married. He fled death squads, hid from soldiers when they broke into his home, saw classmates disappeared. This was the norm for every family he knew. At 16, he was sent away by his mother to save his life. He journeyed on foot to Sudan, then Italy, then Germany, and from there, to the United States, eventually landing in New Haven.
His full name was Ficremariam Ghebreyesus. In Italy he was called Marco. I do not know what he was called in Germany. In the United States he was called Freddy by the owner of the local Chinese herb store, who was named Li-biao and whom most of New Haven called Bill. He was called Fiore by New Haven Italian-Americans, holding on to their own mother tongue in a new space.
Here is what he did when he came to the United States: He worked, usually three not particularly enjoyable jobs at a time requiring multiple bus trips, long and lonely nights. And then he made friends. And then he became part of his community. And then he built and enriched that community.
People from our Eritrean family came at different times of conflict. The last wave was after the Ethiopian-Eritrean border war in 1998, when some Eritreans were rounded up from their jobs in Ethiopia and put in jail. That war, which cost tens of thousands of lives, formally ended only this month, closing over a half-century of conflict.
Ficre considered himself African-American, African, Eritrean, East African, Asmarino, human. He lived in those identities. He had read more books than anyone I knew, spoke eight languages, started a restaurant that fed a community for years and made 882 paintings, some of which will be shown at a one-man show at the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco in September.
He became a United States citizen, and we went to the ceremony in the New Haven courthouse and I saw, in the world that was there, a premise and promise of America. I thought about the phrase "radical welcome."
Ficre lived with anxiety that never left him -- though he was the most joyful man anyone who knew him ever knew. After the Sept. 11 attacks, when brown people and people with "unusual" last names were being rounded up, he would break into an anxious sweat most days, worried that he was no longer secure in what was now his country. That he might be separated from me, and from his beloved boys.
He once sat on a tree stump in the backyard of our home, so far from where he grew up, and said, "Baby, it may sound funny, but this feels like Africa to me."
One of my sisters-in-law, also a refugee, began a new life from scratch in the United States before her husband and remaining child at home could join her. She left everything material behind in Ethiopia -- home, car, furnishings, jewelry. A few things eventually made their way back to her. She'd get a call to meet a plane at Kennedy Airport and a package of something precious would come: spices, fabric, a packet of documents.
The best was when her small coffee table came, with compartments for coffee cups, and a small rug made of artificial grass. She did the sacred Eritrean coffee ceremony and for a moment was no longer a refugee but rather a woman performing the rituals she had performed all her life.
"I am home now," she said, as she poured us cup after cup of coffee. She has since died. It was her daughter who just married.
For what is the meaning of life, after all, than coffee and tea and talk with loved ones?
What is home, to a refugee? I never took home for granted. But it never occurred to me that I might not have my home.
"I don't want the children to be refugees," my husband would say, and we'd share a dark, knowing laugh. "But I do want them to know what we refugees know: that you can make your life from scratch. I want the children to have the strength and wile of survivors."
"We refugees," he said, by which he meant, we refugees who survive.
Ficre died unexpectedly, a few days after his 50th birthday, from cardiac arrest. We'd thought he was healthy. Several doctors separately said to me they were not surprised to hear he was a refugee. More than one cardiologist told me, the heart is a metaphor and the heart is real. Sustained strain can break the heart. People who walk to freedom often carry that strain for the rest of their lives, invisible, but ever-present.
Yes, he was mine and now I sing his song. But he was also no different from so many other refugees who have to leave their homes, people with names that some make little effort to pronounce who continue to build America. Nor am I any different from the millions of people who fell in love and made family here.
Ficre's presence in my life reminds me of the limits and dangers of nationalism everywhere, that families can be torn apart for generations and that in the words of the poet W. H. Auden, "we must love one another or die."
And in the story of Ficre is the lesson that we are impoverished if we remain strangers to one another and that what makes this country unique is that the world is in it.
Ficre left this earth too early. So it is my job to tell his American story. I offer this story to ask, will we build homes with open sides that welcome wayfarers into our lives?
Elizabeth Alexander (@ProfessorEA) was President Barack Obama's inaugural poet in 2009. She is the president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the author of, most recently, "The Light of the World." 
PHOTO: A self-portrait of Ficre Ghebreyesus, the author's late husband. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Courtesy of the estate of Ficre Ghebreyesus FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

629 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

December 4, 2017 Monday  
Late Edition - Final

U.S. Quits Talks on a U.N. Migration Pact, Saying It Infringes on Sovereignty

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Somini Sengupta contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

The Trump administration has quit participating in talks on a proposed United Nations agreement to improve ways of handling global flows of migrants and refugees, describing it as a subversion of American sovereignty.
The administration's decision to renounce the talks on the agreement, the Global Compact on Migration, was announced in a statement Saturday night by the United States Mission to the United Nations, surprising migrant-rights advocates who called it shortsighted and counterproductive. 
  Many said the decision appeared to reinforce what they called an atmosphere of renewed American isolationism and exceptionalism at the United Nations in the first year of the Trump White House. 
  Trump administration officials said the decision was not an American repudiation of cooperation with other countries but a rightful defense of the government's power to determine who can enter the United States.
  ''While we will continue to engage on a number of fronts at the United Nations, in this case, we simply cannot in good faith support a process that could undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration laws and secure our borders,'' Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said in a statement on Sunday.
  The decision was welcomed by President Trump's base of supporters, which has extolled his demands for stricter American immigration rules and a clampdown on refugees, as well as his promises to build a wall along the Mexico border.
  Conservative websites that support Mr. Trump, which viewed the proposed migration pact as a threat to national security, prominently reported the news. ''Breaking. U.S. Withdraws From Obama-Negotiated U.N. Agreement on Mass Migration,'' read the headline on Redstate.com
  The United States Mission said in its statement that it had informed Secretary General Antnio Guterres that ''the United States is ending its participation in the Global Compact on Migration.''
  The United States has been part of the talks since they began in April, the outcome of a political declaration in New York by all 193 members of the United Nations last year in favor of protecting the rights of migrants and refugees by assuring their safe resettlement and access to employment and education.
  The Obama administration was a strong advocate of the declaration, and Mr. Guterres has said he considers the agreement a major goal for 2018.
  Mr. Trump's United Nations ambassador, Nikki R. Haley, said in the statement announcing the withdrawal that the declaration contained ''numerous provisions that are inconsistent with U.S. immigration and refugee policies and the Trump administration's immigration principles.''
  Ms. Haley, a child of Indian immigrants, emphasized in the statement that ''America is proud of our immigrant heritage and our longstanding moral leadership in providing support to migrant and refugee populations across the globe.''
  However, she said, ''our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by Americans and Americans alone.''
  The decision made migration the second major topic of a United Nations agreement to be repudiated by the Trump administration this year. Six months ago, it announced American withdrawal from the Paris Climate accord to combat global warming.
  The Trump White House also has moved to distance itself from some key United Nations agencies over political issues, including Unesco -- the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization -- and the United Nations Population Fund, the world's leading provider of family-planning services.
  The migration announcement came two days before a United Nations conference on migration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, in which the United States had been expected to actively participate.
  The announcement also came against the backdrop of growing migrant and refugee crises from wars, conflicts and deprivation that have afflicted the Middle East, Africa and parts of Asia.
  Chaotic cross-border migration has provoked political backlashes in Europe and helped create booms in the smuggling and exploitation of migrants and refugees across the Mediterranean from Africa. Just last week, rights advocates expressed outrage at video showing African migrant men in Libya sold as slaves.
  The United Nations has estimated that more than 60 million people have been displaced around the world, the largest figure since World War II.
  Migrant-rights advocates expressed a mix of shock and bafflement at the Trump administration's announcement, asserting that nothing proposed in the Global Compact would be mandatory. Some said the absence of the United States from the agreement could worsen the problems.
  ''An unwillingness even to negotiate international principles for safe, regular and orderly migration is a head-in-the-sand denial of a basic reality of human history,'' said Bill Frelick, the refugee rights program coordinator at Human Rights Watch.
  ''Simplistic solutions like walls will not solve the complex problem of unsafe, irregular, disorderly migration, demonstrating a callous disregard for the lives of migrants and jaw-dropping irresponsibility toward the community of nations,'' Mr. Frelick said.
  Kevin Appleby, the international migration policy director at the Scalabrini International Migration Network, a New York-based advocacy group, said the Trump administration was ''more interested in appeasing a small minority of Americans than working with the world on a pressing global issue.''

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/03/world/americas/united-nations-migration-pact.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company

636 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

April 25, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AN INVISIBLE FAMINE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 341 words

 
International efforts to aid starving Kurdish refugees are welcome, although refugees and others elsewhere are facing similar or worse problems with scant attention from the West. The Bush administration initially ignored the Kurds but has since adopted them as America's latest humanitarian cause. The shift probably is due partly to television footage that brought the aftermath of the Persian Gulf War into U.S. homes.  The belated response is better than none. Aside from the Kurdish problem, however, the international spotlight needs to focus on what is fast becoming what one relief official calls second-rate famine. In Ethiopia, for instance, an estimated 2 million people in the Eritrea province and another 2.4 million in the Tigre area are severely affected by famine. Another 1.9 million in Angola are facing starvation, and the U.N. is appealing for $136 million in aid to assist 3.9 million famine victims in Mozambique. Starvation also has become commonplace in the African nations of Liberia, Somalia, Chad and Rwanda.  To be sure, these African nations, unlike the landless Kurds, have been assisted by private international relief agencies. It also should be noted that a good part of the starvation in Africa is due to leaders who favor guns over butter. Roughly $12 billion is spent annually on weapons and armed forces in African countries, many of which lack en ough food to feed their people.  In addition, the hunger and starvation in these nations stem only partly from drought and bad harvests. A big factor is civil war, which has created large refugee populations whose suffering is every bit as tragic as that of the Kurds. The international community cannot give this suffering a low priority even if its attention is focused mainly on the gulf crisis.  It took television footage of starving children, dehydrated infants and slaughtered adults to convince the Bush administration to respond to the plight of the Kurds. What will it take to focus more attention on starvation and slaughter elsewhere?

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

640 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 31, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
People on the Move Tax Nerves and Resources

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

DATELINE: ROME

ITALY showed some of Western Europe's new toughness toward migrants from the East when it yanked the welcome mat from under 20,000 Albanians who had sailed across the Adriatic in rickety ships early this month.
They had come in search of work and refuge along the heel of the Italian boot. Instead, they found squalor and fear of epidemic. In the overwhelmed port of Brindisi, it took the Government days to mobilize the forces to provide food, shelter and showers. The official Italian line was clear, and it was intended to be heard by tens of thousands of other Albanians looking to escape Eastern Europe's last Communist bastion: You are not political refugees, and if you come here you risk indifferent treatment and possible repatriation. 
 Similar barriers are being raised, along with expressions of concern, across Western Europe and elsewhere as the world faces enormous waves of migration that have had no parallel since at least World War II.
Over the last two or three years, millions have been displaced -- lured by hoped-for jobs in richer lands or evicted by hostile regimes, impelled to flee because of the devastation of war or oppressive rule, or suddenly free to roam thanks to liberating events like Communism's collapse in Eastern Europe.
 
A Flow of Humanity
 Their movements have been as diverse as humanity itself:
About 310,000 ethnic Turks abandoned Bulgaria in 1989 in the face of forced assimilation imposed by the then-Communist regime. A year earlier, 60,000 Iraqi Kurds fled to Turkey saying they had been attacked with chemical weapons by Saddam Hussein's troops.
Some 150,000 Soviet Jews moved in 1990 to Israel, a near record number that will continue to grow and that has already triggered alarm in neighboring Arab countries. Soviet Jews aside, more than a million Poles, Yugoslavs, Albanians, ethnic Hungarians and Germans and other Eastern Europeans are estimated to have sought asylum and opportunity in the West last year.
From Honduras, about 50,000 Nicaraguans have moved back home now that the Sandinistas are out of power. Perhaps 2 million Mexicans cross illegally into the United States every year looking for work. Countless tens of thousands of North Africans sailed into southern Europe last year for similar reasons, and more than 70,000 Vietnamese migrants are known to have gone in 1990 to the United States, Canada and Australia.  Tens of thousands of Pakistanis and Filipinos entered Japan both legally and otherwise.
 None of this includes the 850,000 or more Egyptians, Bangladeshis, Indians, Sri Lankans and others who found themselves uprooted with virtually no warning by the Persian Gulf crisis. These were workers in Kuwait and Iraq, whose departure last summer and fall created sudden hardships both for themselves and their native countries.
For example, some 450,000 Egyptian workers are believed to have returned home, creating an emergency for more than 1.5 million people, according to officials in Cairo. Estimates of the overall costs -- in terms of lost remittances, forfeited tax revenues, property abandoned in Iraq and Kuwait and spending for those coming home -- run into the billions of dollars. That for a country where the per capita gross national product comes to $550 a year.
These new migrations come on top of earlier movements, some going back decades, that have made more or less permanent residents of people like the 1.6 million Turks in Germany, or the Palestinians who make up at least half of Jordan's 3 million people, or the many thousands of Cambodians who have spent more than a decade in refugee camps along the Thai-Cambodian border.
It is often tempting to describe these displaced souls as refugees. In fact, few qualify for that designation and the exemptions it often brings from routine demands for entry visas, work permits, invitations and proof of hard currency. Under the 1951 Geneva Convention, a refugee is someone with "a well-founded fear of being persecuted in his country of origin for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion." Simply running away from hard times back home is not good enough. Nor is escaping from a war or an environmental catastrophe like the burning oilfields of Kuwait. The United Nations counts 16 million as refugees, but millions more are in similar circumstances.
 
No Welcome Mat
 As a result, many emigres, especially those from the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe, find themselves trapped by a form of Catch-22. When they could easily claim they were political refugees from Communism, they could not get out. Now that they can move with relative ease, few can claim to be refugees. As the Albanians discovered in Brindisi, they have fewer recourses when one industrialized country after another says that there is neither room nor jobs for them.
Soviet Jews insist they still qualify as refugees because of pervasive anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union. But the United States, for one, is not so convinced, and it has set a ceiling of 50,000 Soviet migrants this year. Those limitations partly explain why so many Soviet Jews are turning to Israel, increasing political pressures in the explosive region.
With economic imperatives lying behind so much of the worldwide migration, affluent nations have been feeling they must stem the flow to protect their own interests.
United States immigration officials say that each year they apprehend up to a million Mexicans trying to enter the country illegally; they also acknowledge, however, that perhaps twice as many slip through the net. In Japan, never known for taking kindly to strangers, there are periodic sweeps against illegal migrants, usually from southern Asia, and sometimes also against companies that hire them.
But the most explosive changes have occurred in the last two years in Europe, where the prosperous West, after having encouraged change in the East for so long, is now scrambling to keep its poor Eastern cousins from flocking its way. Western Europeans are conspicuously worried about the Soviet Union, where a new migration law is being prepared that would codify people's rights to walk out the front door.
According to some estimates, as many as 30 million Soviet citizens are prepared to move. The Soviet delegate to a conference on European migration held in Vienna in January insisted that a more probable figure was 1.5 million to 2 million. In any event, "the Soviet Union's emigration potential is in theory immense," a French social demographer, Jean-Claude Chesnais, warned at a similar conference in Rome this month. "Political, economic, religious and cultural factors all combine to make an increasing number of people want to leave the country."
The West's hope is to keep them where they are. One solution is to provide emergency assistance and long-term investment so that staying home will seem more attractive. Another idea is to discourage Eastern Europeans from believing that the West is a land of milk and honey. The International Organization for Migration, a Geneva-based group, advises the West to tell would-be immigrants about true job prospects, especially in countries like Greece, Spain and Italy, where unemployment rates are already high.
Even before the new influx from the East, the 12 members of the European Community were showing increasing impatience and hostility toward immigrants, especially from the third world. There has been a general tightening of immigration laws, rooted in a concern that any migrant managing to enter any one community country will be free to circulate throughout the other 11.
Racial incidents occur these days with depressing regularity even in countries like Italy, which has long prided itself on tolerance. Across Europe, North Africans and Turks who account for much of the migration are often regarded as threats to ethnic and cultural unity. Sometimes they are accused of taking jobs from natives, even though in many cases they fill low-paid jobs that the locals no longer will accept.
 Demographers now worry that the new east-to-west migration may eclipse the more traditional movement from south to north by shrinking job opportunities for third-world immigrants. And unemployment pressures in so-called lesser developed countries are not about to disappear as populations soar. One migration expert at the Rome conference, Prof. Reginald T. Appleyard of the University of Western Australia, reported that in 20 years those poor countries alone will have to generate more new jobs than now exist in the entire developed world.
Inevitably, many of those people will be forced to look elsewhere for work. In the face of such needs, specialists caution that simply shutting the West's front door will not be a useful solution.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Europe -- More than 20,000 people have fled Albania for Greece and Italy in recent weeks. The hundreds crowded onto this boat, shown arriving in Brindisi, Italy, were among those who encountered an indifferent reception, intended to send a message to others who might wish to follow. (Antonello Nusca/Gamma-Liaison); Iraq -- Thousands of Iraqis are refugees in their own country, running from destruction and rebellion. Iraqis reached for food being handed out by the Saudi Army in southern Iraq last week. (Reuters); Africa -- In more than 12 years of civil war in Mozambique, 800,000 people have become refugees. More than 200,000 have fled to Zimbabwe, where these two young girls lined up for food in a refugee camp. (Agence France-Presse); Jordan -- Iraq and Kuwait relied on foreign workers, most of whom fled during the crisis. These Indian construction workers fled allied bombing attacks on Basra and ended up in a transit camp in Jordan. (Associated Press)

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company

641 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 11, 2016 Thursday

[#x20ac][#xfffd]Let[#x20ac][TM]s build bridges, not walls,[#x20ac][TM] says UN chief, urging all countries to help refugees and migrants

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the following news release

  

  Encouraging young refugees gathered for an event at resettlement centre in Los Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part of your new communities," United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the United States and other countries to keep reaching out to people in need, wherever they are, because "we will all be stronger" by building bridges instead of walls. 


 

 "Have hope [&hellip;] I have faith in you," Mr. Ban said in a special message to young people gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation, after his visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from Guatemala and Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and Africa.

 

 He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families around the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New York, the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where, among other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children should go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives them asylum.

 

 "I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees - including Syrian refugees," said the Secretary-General, adding: "Let's keep reaching out a helping hand to people in their time of need. Let's never give in to the forces of fear and division. Let's welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and friends. Let's build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it."

 

 He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war - the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave us school supplies," he said.

 

 "Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to you. If I could do it, you can do it," said Mr. Ban.

 

 Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide-range of global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.

 

 Mr. Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday, in which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the industry to be a power for social good.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

  

  

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

642 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 11, 2016 Thursday

[#x20ac][#xfffd]Let[#x20ac][TM]s build bridges, not walls,[#x20ac][TM] says UN chief, urging all countries to help refugees and migrants

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the following news release

  

  Encouraging young refugees gathered for an event at resettlement centre in Los Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part of your new communities," United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the United States and other countries to keep reaching out to people in need, wherever they are, because "we will all be stronger" by building bridges instead of walls. 


 

 "Have hope [&hellip;] I have faith in you," Mr. Ban said in a special message to young people gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation, after his visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from Guatemala and Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and Africa.

 

 He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families around the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New York, the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where, among other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children should go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives them asylum.

 

 "I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees - including Syrian refugees," said the Secretary-General, adding: "Let's keep reaching out a helping hand to people in their time of need. Let's never give in to the forces of fear and division. Let's welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and friends. Let's build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it."

 

 He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war - the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave us school supplies," he said.

 

 "Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to you. If I could do it, you can do it," said Mr. Ban.

 

 Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide-range of global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.

 

 Mr. Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday, in which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the industry to be a power for social good.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

  

  

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

643 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 11, 2016 Thursday

[#x20ac][#xfffd]Let[#x20ac][TM]s build bridges, not walls,[#x20ac][TM] says UN chief, urging all countries to help refugees and migrants

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the following news release

  

  Encouraging young refugees gathered for an event at resettlement centre in Los Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part of your new communities," United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the United States and other countries to keep reaching out to people in need, wherever they are, because "we will all be stronger" by building bridges instead of walls. 


 

 "Have hope [&hellip;] I have faith in you," Mr. Ban said in a special message to young people gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation, after his visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from Guatemala and Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and Africa.

 

 He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families around the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New York, the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where, among other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children should go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives them asylum.

 

 "I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees - including Syrian refugees," said the Secretary-General, adding: "Let's keep reaching out a helping hand to people in their time of need. Let's never give in to the forces of fear and division. Let's welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and friends. Let's build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it."

 

 He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war - the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave us school supplies," he said.

 

 "Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to you. If I could do it, you can do it," said Mr. Ban.

 

 Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide-range of global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.

 

 Mr. Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday, in which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the industry to be a power for social good.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

  

  

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

644 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

May 28, 2006 Sunday  
2 Edition

Darfur isn't too far to care for this crowd

BYLINE: EMILY NIPPS

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: TAMPA 

About 75 students, professors and other attendees got together Saturday for a think tank luncheon on the humanitarian crisis in Sudan in the University of South Florida's TECO Room. 
The event was organized by the United Nations' Association of the United States of America.
Members of the audience listened to panelists speak out against the genocidal practices and other human rights violations committed in Darfur, a region in western Sudan.
They watched video clips of starving men, women, children and animals living among tattered huts in refugee camps. They asked questions about the region and the Sudanese government. They got answers from Sudanese refugees who live in New Port Richey.
"I would say most Americans don't really know where Sudan is," said Hal Hann, a UNA-USA member and Sun City Center retiree at the luncheon.
And that's part of the problem, said Linda Ruescher of the Tampa Bay Refugee Task Force, who helps Sudanese refugees adapt to American life.
"We get these little clips and sound bites, instead of a real person," she said. "I think we get bombarded with so many things, it's not real."
Perhaps the most significant panelist was Yahya Osman, secretary general of the Darfur Rehabilitation Project, who is flying to Africa today to meet with Sudanese government officials and rebel army leaders.
He urged the audience to write to local and national government officials and to withdraw financial support from international corporations that do business with Sudan, including dumping their shares.
Emily Nipps can be reached at (813) 269-5313 or nipps@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

645 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 31, 2018 Friday

Washington: With the Number of Refugees Permitted to Come to the U.S. on Pace for Lowest Number on Record, Senators Call on Trump Administration to Step Up Efforts and Honor America's Legacy as a Safe Haven for Families Fleeing Persecution

LENGTH: 1633 words

Washington: Office of the Senator Patty Murray has issued the following news release:    U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) led 22 of their Democratic Senate colleagues in a letter to President Trump demanding that the Administration honor the United States' legacy as a nation of immigrants and beacon of hope for families around the globe fleeing violence and persecution by increasing the cap on the number of refugees allowed to resettle in the U.S. and strengthening resources across the federal government to admit more refugees into the country.  Since President Trump took office, the United States has slashed the cap on the number of refugees allowed to resettle in the U.S. by more than half - from 110,000 in fiscal year 2017 to only 45,000 during fiscal year 2018, the lowest since the cap was established in 1980. Additionally, the Trump Administration has worked to slow the resettlement of refugees in the U.S. by limiting federal resources needed to process their admittance, including reducing the number of staff who conduct refugee interviews. Due to these efforts, the Trump Administration is on pace to admit approximately 21,000 refugees to the U.S. this fiscal year, the lowest number of refugees admitted to the U.S. since the refugee resettlement program was founded four decades ago. In their letter, the senators urged President Trump to ensure the U.S. admits refugees during the current fiscal year consistent with the current cap of 45,000, and significantly increase the ceiling on the total number of refugees allowed to resettle in the U.S. for fiscal year 2019.  "We encourage you, as someone who prides himself on his management acumen, to push all relevant federal agencies to expedite refugee processing to meet the 45,000 ceiling by October 1," wrote the senators in their letter.  
"Since our nation's founding, refugees have brought immense value, diversity, and perseverance to the American character. These characteristics have made our country stronger and more resilient133;[w]hile we must continue to screen refugee applicants thoroughly, we must also conduct the vetting and interviews in a timelier manner and address the root causes of mass displacement abroad."  In the letter, the senators also highlighted the importance of refugee resettlement to U.S. national security priorities: "National security experts agree on a bipartisan basis that a robust refugee program is vital for our national security, and we are deeply concerned that your actions to reduce refugee resettlement in the past two fiscal years has damaged our military, diplomatic, and intelligence interests abroad. The United States should not fear the world's most vulnerable, nor should we scapegoat victims of terror and repression who seek refuge in the United States."  In addition to Senators Murray and Durbin, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Tina Smith (D-MN), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).  The Honorable Donald J. Trump  President of the United States  The White House  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW  Washington, DC  20500     Dear President Trump:  We are deeply troubled by reports that your Administration is considering a third reduction in as many years in the number of refugees who may be resettled in the United States.[1] We write to express our strong support for refugees and to urge your Administration to fulfill our nation's long-standing bipartisan commitment to providing protection and refuge to the world's most vulnerable populations.  At a time when 44,000 people per day are forced to flee their homes due to violence and persecution,[2] the United States should be stepping up its global leadership and demonstrating America's compassion--rather than shirking our legacy as a nation of immigrants and a beacon of hope for those fleeing persecution. We therefore ask that you intensify efforts to meet the current refugee resettlement ceiling for fiscal year 2018 and increase the number of refugees who may be resettled in the upcoming fiscal year.  In the Refugee Act of 1980, Congress granted the president authority, in consultation with Congress, to determine a ceiling for refugee admissions to the United States each year. At the time the world was facing one of the largest refugee crises, with millions of people from Afghanistan, Southeast Asia, and countries in the Horn of Africa displaced. President Reagan, who vowed to "continue America's tradition as a land that welcomes peoples from other countries [and] continue to share in the responsibility of welcoming and resettling those who flee oppression,"[3] set the cap at 140,000 in fiscal year 1982,[4] and the United States admitted more than 98,000 refugees that fiscal year.[5]  In fiscal year 2016, showing global leadership, the United States admitted 84,994.[6] While President Obama set the refugee ceiling for fiscal year 2017 at 110,000 in response to the scale of the global refugee crisis,[7] once you took office you slashed the cap to 50,000, which was quickly met by July.[8] In October, we were disappointed when you set the ceiling for fiscal year 2018 even lower at 45,000[9]--the lowest since the ceiling was established in 1980.  Moreover, reports indicate "the Trump administration has used bureaucratic delays to slow the number of refugees to a trickle," including by slashing the staff who conduct interviews.[10] Based on current rates of resettlement your Administration is on pace to admit approximately 21,000 refugees to the United States during this fiscal year[11]--which would be the lowest number of refugees admitted to the United States since the program was created.[12] We encourage you, as someone who prides himself on his management acumen, to push all relevant federal agencies to expedite refugee processing to meet the 45,000 ceiling by October 1.  Since our nation's founding, refugees have brought immense value, diversity, and perseverance to the American character. These characteristics have made our country stronger and more resilient. Reports show that refugees are highly entrepreneurial--creating jobs for United States citizens--and generating billions of dollars in economic growth for the United States.[13] Refugees' labor force participation, employment rates, median income, spending power, and rates of college graduation are robust.[14] Not only is the United States' refugee program a moral imperative, but it also is an economic boon to our country.  Among all travelers to the United States, refugees are the most carefully and thoroughly vetted.[15] Prior to traveling, refugees must clear extensive biometric, biographic, intelligence, medical, and law enforcement checks, involving multiple agencies and extensive interviews.[16] While we must continue to screen refugee applicants thoroughly, we must also conduct the vetting and interviews in a timelier manner and address the root causes of mass displacement abroad.  The refugee program Congress established in 1980 solidified our great nation's moral leadership as a beacon of hope and place of refuge for those being persecuted. Moreover, it also served a strategic national security goal.[17] As former Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff wrote, "cutting refugee admittances would not only be a moral failure but also damage our national interest abroad [133;.] Maintaining resettlement commitments is also critical to our military, diplomatic and intelligence operations abroad."[18] Further, as Michael Hayden, former Director of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency, and James Stavridis, former NATO Supreme Allied Commander, explain, "hostility to refugees helps ISIS. [133;] Conversely, welcoming refugees regardless of their religion, nationality, or race exposes the falseness of terrorist propaganda and counters the warped vision of extremists."[19] National security experts agree on a bipartisan basis that a robust refugee program is vital for our national security, and we are deeply concerned that your actions to reduce refugee resettlement in the past two fiscal years has damaged our military, diplomatic, and intelligence interests abroad. The United States should not fear the world's most vulnerable, nor should we scapegoat victims of terror and repression who seek refuge in the United States.  We ask that you take steps to ensure the number of refugee admissions in fiscal year 2018 is 45,000, consistent with the current ceiling. We further ask that you provide a significant increase above fiscal year 2018 to the total number of refugees who may be admitted to the United States in fiscal year 2019. If you have any questions about this issue, please contact Jake Cornett of Senator Murray's staff at 202-224-0767.  Sincerely,     CC:       The Honorable Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW, Washington, DC  20520  The Honorable James N. Mattis, Secretary of Defense, U.S. Department of Defense, 1300 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC  20301                 The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen, Secretary of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 301 7th Street, SW, Mail Stop 0150, Washington, DC  20528  The Honorable John Bolton, National Security Advisor, Eisenhower Executive Office Building, Room 307, 1650 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC  20503 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

647 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

December 19, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

(FREEDOM'S MARCH TIMELINE)Freedom's March;
Part eight of a series

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 528 words

 
 
June 13: South Africa
South Africa was for decades the international poster child for racial tyranny. Under Nelson Mandela's heroic leadership it was recast as a triumph for freedom with implications far beyond its borders. But even as democracy takes root, South Africans face up to challenges -- AIDS, crime and an uncertain economy -- that go beyond apartheid. 
 
Terence Samuel, reporter
 
Odell Mitchell, photographer
 
July 11: Refugees and Recovery
The Albanian Kosovars who fled the fighting in Kosovo soon encountered the more private trauma common to refugees everywhere as they adjust to a new life. As St. Louis becomes a leading refugee center, innovative outre ach efforts help the newcomers realize the potential of their new freedom.
 
Philip Dine, reporter
 
J.B. Forbes, photographer
 
Aug. 1: Guatemala
In Guatemala, a Central American country with a long history of economic, military and religious ties to the United States, freedom for most people still means a struggle for the basics of shelter and food. The story of one family's quest for land, through civil war and displacement, and the heavy price it has paid for the plot of land that means freedom itself.
 
Jon Sawyer, reporter
 
Teak Phillips, photographer
 
Sept. 5: St. Louis
Ann Marie and Josepheus Reynolds grew up in The Ville, one of the few St. Louis neighborhoods open to blacks during the Depression. They've seen dramatic changes in opportunities, as legal discrimination crumbled in the '50s and '60s. But they've also faced the persistent barriers of racism that keep the American dream out of reach for many African Americans.
 
Deirdre Shesgreen, reporter
 
Laurie Skrivan, photographer
 
Oct. 24/31: Germany/Eastern Europe
Ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall east and west Germans are still struggling with unexpected ambiguities of freedom. Two sisters on opposite sides of the divide reflect on the economic hardships and psycho logical adjustments they have faced in the wake of Germany's reunification. Experts from across the region warn that democracy cannot flourish until more attention is given to the human legacy of totalitarianism.
 
Robert L. Koenig, Philip Dine, reporters
 
Nov. 28: Yemen
Yemen, a long-isolated land on the Arabian Peninsula, is the unlikely venue for a freedom quest by women. Women in Middle East still endure abuse, imprisonment and even death in a culture obsessed with protecting their sexuality. But in Yemen, six years after democracy emerged, women have begun taking their place alongside men in government and the workplace.
 
Bill Lambrecht, reporter
 
Jamie Rector, photographer
 
Dec. 19: St. Louis
The voices of freedom, close to home: A Chinese student leader jailed after the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989, now studying to be a minister in St. Louis County. A retired teacher in East St. Louis, one of the Little Rock Nine who made history by desegregating Central High School in 1957. A St. Louis corporate lawyer who helped prosecute German Nazis at Nuremberg.
 
Jon Sawyer, reporter
 
Chris Lee, photographer

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo by Odell Mitchell - (Woman washing items in a bucket.)
 (2) Photo by J.B. Forbes - (Two Albanian Kosovar refugees)
 Photo by Teak Phillips - (Young boy sitting in hall.)
 Photo by Jamie Rector - (Two eyes looking through a mask.)

Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

648 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 24, 2016 Wednesday

Activities of Secretary-General in California, United States, 10-12 August

LENGTH: 467  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the following news release 

  

 United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, accompanied by Madam Ban Soon-taek, arrived in Los Angeles from Argentina on Wednesday morning, 10 August. 


 

 He participated in a conversation with television producers and writers to encourage the increasing collaboration between the creative community and the United Nations, which has been extremely valuable, allowing the United Nations to reach millions of viewers worldwide with messages about the role of the Organization and global issues, such as the Sustainable Development Goals.

 

 In addition, the Secretary-General participated in a dialogue with Congressman Ed Royce of California, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide range of global issues.  During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss the situations in South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean Peninsula.  (See Press Release SG/SM/17976.)

 

 He also met with a group of recently arrived refugees from Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East at an event co-sponsored by the International Rescue Committee (IRC), The Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation.  In his discussions with the refugee families, the Secretary-General said the United Nations would be there for them as it had been there for him when he was a displaced young boy in war-torn Korea.  And in a message to communities that had seen a recent influx of refugees, the Secretary-General said that these newly arrived families needed to be welcomed, embraced and integrated into their new communities.  He expressed gratitude to the authorities in California as it is the top state in receiving resettled refugees in the United States.  (See Press Release SG/SM/17975.)

 

 On Wednesday evening, he attended a creative community outreach event and dinner hosted by the film director and producer, Brett Ratner.  He talked to attendees about how he strongly believed in the ability of the industry to be a power for social good.

 

 The Secretary-General left Los Angeles on Thursday morning for San Francisco.  In San Francisco, he visited the woman he calls his "American mother", Libba Patterson.  Mrs. Patterson, who is now 99, and her family hosted a young Ban Ki-moon in 1962 when he was in the United States as part of a Red Cross-sponsored programme.

 

 He later met with Governor Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown, Jr., of California to thank him for his and his state's support for the fight against climate change.

 

 The Secretary-General departed California for Calgary, Canada, early on Friday morning, 12 August.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

  

  

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

650 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

March 14, 2003 Friday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Homes for Refugees 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 162 words

To the Editor:
     Re "Africa's Lost Tribe Discovers American Way" (front page, March 7): 
 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees provides food, shelter and basic services to 20 million people.  
We have helped the Somali Bantu in camps in Kenya since the early 1990's. But a refugee camp is never a long-term solution. 
When Washington responded positively to our request in 1991 to consider resettling the refugees, it was cause for celebration. More than a year ago, 12,000 learned that they would be interviewed for resettlement. But fewer than 10 percent have been, and just a handful have departed. 
A two-year slowdown in America's resettlement program has left many thousands of refugees in desperate situations. Resolving the Bantu issue would be an important step forward. We hope that these people will finally be able to leave their misery behind.

GUENET GUEBRE-CHRISTOS
Regional Representative
U.N.H.C.R. Office for U.S., Caribbean
Washington, March 12, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

655 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 26, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: State Department Contributes an Initial $226 Million to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for 2014

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 US Mission to UN in Geneva, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:
The United States is pleased to announce an initial contribution of $226 million toward the 2014 operations of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). This $226 million contribution includes $119.7 million for sub-Saharan Africa, which includes contributions to the crises in South Sudan and the Central African Republic previously announced earlier this year. Additional contributions will be forthcoming over the course of the year. 
This year's initial contribution, funded through the State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, will support UNHCR efforts worldwide. This funding includes support for refugees returning to countries such as Afghanistan and the Democratic Republic of Congo; local integration and resettlement; and protection and life-saving assistance. U.S. funding supports the provision of water, shelter, food, healthcare, and education to refugees, internally displaced persons, and other persons under UNHCR's care and protection in countries such as Iraq, Yemen, Pakistan, Colombia, South Sudan, and Kenya. The contribution will support UNHCR's program activities in the areas listed below:
Africa  $ 119.7 million
Middle East  $ 35.1 million
Asia and Pacific  $ 46.5 million
Operational Reserve including Emergency Response activities  $ 4.5 million
Global Operations  $ 6.2 million
Headquarters  $ 4.0 million
Europe  $ 6.2 million
Western Hemisphere  $ 3.8 million
TOTAL  $ 226 million
 
This $226 million for UNHCR does not reflect the $104.7 million contribution to UNHCR for the 2014 Syria Humanitarian Assistance Response Plan (SHARP) and the 2014 Syria Regional Response Plan (RRP) that was announced at the Second International Pledging Conference for Syria in January 2014.
In FY 2013, the United States contributed more than $1 billion to UNHCR to support ongoing and emergency programs around the world, including more than $370 million in response to humanitarian needs related to the crisis in Syria. The U.S. government provided a total of more than $1.3 billion in humanitarian assistance for Syria in FY 2013.
We salute the important work of UNHCR, its many NGO partners, and refugee-hosting countries in providing protection to displaced populations around the world.

For more information please visit: http://geneva.usmission.gov

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

657 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 13, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
Correction Appended

CANADA PROPOSES ZAIRE AID FORCE

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE  

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Foreign Desk  

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 12

Canada has volunteered to lead an international force into eastern Zaire to bring food and protection to more than a million refugees displaced by fighting, United Nations officials said today.
The mission envisioned by the Canadians involves 10,000 to 15,000 ground troops from about a dozen nations, including the United States, who would protect aid convoys intended to avert an impending catastrophe of starvation and disease. 
 But an official announcement in Ottawa of Canada's plan was canceled at the last minute today when the Clinton Administration did not, as expected, approve the plan after a high-level meeting at the White House.
While officials at the United Nations said a Canadian-led force was likely to be deployed, and could be in place as early as next weekend, the Americans continued to block the necessary approval by the Security Council.
Any force that would wade into the conflict in Zaire would face a quandary of how to bring aid to the hundreds of thousands of refugees there, most of them from Rwanda, without also aiding the thousands of guerrillas living among them. [News analysis, page A8].
Administration officials said they feared a foreign venture into a chaotic landscape of rival militias and endangered refugees could end in disaster.
One White House official, calling the Canadian plan rudimentary, said that the United States was still looking for firm answers on how a mission would be undertaken, what the command and control structure would be, and what the objective would be on the ground once troops arrived.
"We did learn from Somalia," said Glyn Davies, a State Department spokesman, referring to the 1993 operation in which 18 American troops died trying to capture a fugitive faction leader after being sent to Somalia to rescue starving Somalis.
"We learned some lessons," he said. "And one of them is that you have to be awfully certain when you go into something this big, this complicated, this potentially dangerous, that you know what you're getting into; you have a plan for dealing with it; you have some conception of the outcome that you'd like to see; and you have some conception of how it's going to end for you as well. In other words, getting in is fine and important, but you have to get out eventually."
The Pentagon said today that while there had been no decision on whether the United State would participate in a peacekeeping force in Central Africa, an armed team of 40 American soldiers and other military officials would travel to the region on Wednesday "to conduct an assessment of the humanitarian situation."
The team, which will be led by Maj. Gen. Edward P. Smith, will include "a broad range of specialists, such as medical, engineering, civil affairs and security assistance," the Pentagon said in a statement.
Lieut. Col. Nancy Burt, a Pentagon spokeswoman, cautioned that "the deployment of this team enhances the military's ability to respond but does not represent a commitment by the U.S. to deploy other forces."
Despite the American misgivings, several European and African countries have offered troops to join the Canadians, including France, which has been the most vociferous advocate of a rescue mission.
After the prospect of quick American approval dissolved late today, Canada's Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, said in Ottawa that he planned to talk with President Clinton tonight.
The Canadian officer who would lead the force, Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, also canceled a meeting with United Nations officials and flew instead to Washington for talks. Mr. Chretien told reporters in Ottawa that Canadian troops could be deployed within 48 hours and urged the United Nations Security Council to meet "as soon as possible" to authorize the operation, which would insure the safe delivery of food and other relief goods, and to protect refugees in Zaire and ultimately assist them to return home to Rwanda or Burundi. "U.S. participation is vital to the success of any mission," Mr. Chretien said.
At the State Department today, Mr. Davies said the Administration still hoped for "an effective cease-fire" that would allow relief agencies access to the refugees. He described the Canadian plan as one of "a number of proposals."
United Nations officials said the all-but-agreed military plan for eastern Zaire, where more than a million refugees are wandering around inhospitable terrain without food and water after being driven out of camps by fighting, included an American operation to seize and hold the airport at Goma, the largest city in the region, so that relief supplies could be flown in.
The plan, involving troops from at least a dozen nations, had been expected to be endorsed today by American officials after a White House meeting. The Canadians planned to follow that announcement with a news conference formally nominating General Baril to head the force.
The mission had been discussed over the weekend by Americans and their Western allies, as well as by African nations and the Organization of African Unity, American and foreign officials said. The Canadians proposed a force of 10,000 to 15,000 troops, and said that the mission should last from four to six months.
Early today in Paris, France's Defense Minister, Charles Millon, had urged the Clinton Administration to stop stalling. "Intervention is urgent and procrastination by some countries is intolerable," Mr. Millon said in a radio interview, hours before a visit by Secretary of State Warren Christopher. "The United States must not drag its feet any longer."
A disaster assessment team from the United States Agency for International Development was in the area today, where doctors have begun reporting some cases of cholera.
Most of the Rwandan refugees in Zaire are Hutu who fled the takeover of Rwanda by a Tutsi-led Government after Hutu militias and other officially inspired mobs massacred hundreds of thousands of Tutsi.      

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Nov. 13 about Canada's offer to lead an international force to help Rwandan refugees included an erroneous given name supplied by the Pentagon for an American officer heading a team sent to Africa to assess the situation. He is Maj. Gen. Edwin P. Smith, not Edward.

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

660 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

May 26, 2016 Thursday  
Worcester TG Edition

Syrian refugee crisis focus of interactive exhibit

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 16

LENGTH: 625 words

BOSTON -- What's it like to flee Syria as a refugee?
Global relief and development organization Oxfam America and Microsoft are hoping to demonstrate the harrowing ordeal many migrants endure through a free exhibit Wednesday evening at the tech giant's research and development center in Cambridge.
Participants in "The Refugee Road" will be assigned the real-life story of a Syrian refugee that the Boston-based Oxfam America has worked with. 
As they move through the exhibit, some will be randomly called on to share their refugee's experience as photos taken by Oxfam staffers at border crossings and refugee camps help illustrate the plight.
Others will be asked to act out parts of the journey, like carrying bags of clothes and other personal possessions or being subjected to interrogations as if they were at a border crossing.
"Experiential events like this bring emotions alive and stir a deep sense of identification," said Nancy Delaney, Oxfam America's director of community engagement. "Ultimately, we want people to come away with a primary understanding: everyone on earth has the same basic needs. It is only our circumstances -- where we live and the culture into which we are born -- that differ."
Syria's civil war has displaced an estimated 11 million people since erupting in March 2011 as part of the Arab Spring revolutions that saw old regimes fall across North Africa and the Middle East.
Oxfam, which was founded in Oxford, England in 1942 and now has more than a dozen affiliates working in nearly 100 countries, says it has helped provide more than 1.5 million displaced Syrians with food, water and shelter.
The life stories highlighted Wednesday represent some of the most common experiences of Syrians, said Oxfam America spokeswoman Emily Bhatti.
They include those who have flooded Lebanon, Jordan and other neighboring countries, those who have settled in North America, Europe and elsewhere, and those who remain in Syria, either by choice or because financial or other reasons prevent them from fleeing.
The event is meant, in part, to call on the U.S. to redouble its efforts to resettle Syrians.
Just over 1,700 refugees have been admitted into the U.S. since last fall, when President Barack Obama set the relatively modest goal of resettling 10,000 Syrians by October 2016.
"At this rate, we won't even meet half of that goal by then," said Ali Aljundi, Oxfam America's project officer for Syria. "And even if the U.S. were to reach its goal, it would still be a drop in the bucket."
Germany, in contrast, has already taken in hundreds of thousands of Syrians; Canada has admitted nearly 27,000 since November.
Top Congressional Democrats, including presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, urged the administration last week to speed up the process, but Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan and other GOP leaders have called for a pause.
They sought tighter regulations following November's deadly attacks in Paris, where at least one of the perpetrators allegedly gained entry to the country posing as a Syrian refugee.
But Oxfam and other advocates say the U.S. refugee resettlement program is already one of the world's most stringent, with multiple levels of background checks and investigations.
"Anti-refugee rhetoric and cynical efforts by politicians to create more hurdles won't make the U.S. any safer," says Aljundi, who came to Massachusetts from Syria in 2012 to attend graduate school. "Thousands of Syrian refugee families are waiting in limbo. Their lives hang in the balance."
Men peer from a train window at the railway station in Tabanovce, Macedonia, near the border of Serbia. The photo will be among those included in "The Refugee Road," an interactive exhibit in Cambridge. Photo/ Pablo Tosco/Oxfam via AP

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

661 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

June 4, 2007 Monday

RUSSELL BLOOM: 1948-2007; 
Outreach worker helped new refugees; 
The speaker of many languages had worked for a Lutheran agency.

BYLINE: DANA TREEN

SECTION: Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 560 words

Jacksonville native Russell Bloom, who knew languages by the handful, traveled the world to guide refugees to new lives and felt strongly about the social justice in his work, died Saturday after complications from pulmonary fibrosis following open heart surgery, a family member said. 
Mr. Bloom, 58, was awaiting a lung transplant when he died at St. Lukes Hospital, his sister Beth Kochba said.
The former director of refugee and immigrant services for Lutheran Social Services of Northeast Florida, Mr. Bloom was instrumental in helping refugees who relocated to Jacksonville from places such as Bosnia and Croatia and the continents of Africa and South America.
"His were people who were fleeing persecution," said Wanda Lanier, the former executive director of the city's Emergency Services and Homeless Coalition who knew Mr. Bloom for 20 years. For a time, Mr. Bloom worked in her consulting business. "He felt compelled to help people who had no hope when they came to this country. They left everything, their possessions, sometimes their families."
A 1967 graduate of Samuel Wolfson High School, Mr. Bloom earned a bachelor's degree at Florida Presbyterian College and a masters in journalism from the University of Florida. He joined the Peace Corps and was in West Africa for two years before spending 15 years as a teacher in Cali, Colombia, where he adopted a son.
Mr. Bloom returned to Jacksonville, where he focused on refugee issues with Lutheran Social Services then worked with a United Nations refugee program operating in Tajikistan and Brazil. Recently, he worked with the Jacksonville Children's Commission.
"He really had such a breadth of knowledge of language, of culture," Lanier said. "It was really something he embraced, the diversity. Certainly his work exemplified that."
Mr. Bloom also was involved with the Jacksonville Sister Cities Association, Rotary, and other organizations.
For all his outreach, Mr. Bloom was not one to seek a spotlight, said Kochba, who remembered an intellectual brother who would slip away when family gatherings became large.
"He hated a fuss, he hated a crowd," she said. "He was just a gentle, softspoken person."
She said Mr. Bloom loved the outdoors and music and had a habit as an adult of looking up new words in the dictionary.
"He'd tell you all his word for the day," she said.
He also had a habit of bringing people, often refugees who spoke no English, to share holidays with his family.
"We always knew to set another couple of places," Kochba said. "So many of these families would stay in touch with him, and he would stay in touch with them."
In addition to Kochba, of Great Falls, Va., Mr. Bloom is survived by his son, Jaime Bloom, of Atlantic Beach; mother, Natalie Bloom, brother Malcolm Bloom, sister Patty Nussbaum, all of Jacksonville; and Sister Nancy Bloom Loventhal, of Nashville, Tenn. He was preceded in death by his father, Joseph Bloom.
A service to honor Mr. Bloom's life will be held at 10:30 a.m. today at Congregation Ahavath Chesed, 8727 San Jose Blvd., Jacksonville. Flowers are respectfully declined and memorial contributions may be made to the Jacksonville Sister Cities Association, the Mayo Clinic Jacksonville Heart/Lung Transplant Department of other charity.
Hardage-Giddens Hendricks Avenue Funeral Home is handling arrangements.
dana.treen@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4091

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Florida Times-Union

672 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

March 7, 2017 Tuesday

Why some refugee claimants may have better odds than others to stay in Canada

SECTION: Pg. B3

LENGTH: 616 words

WINNIPEG ? Bundled against bone-chilling cold, asylum-seekers hoping to gain refugee status in Canada have been trudging through ditches and fields along the border with the United States.
Many have already had refugee or asylum claims turned down in the U.S. and feel they may have more success in Canada. That assumption, say some immigration lawyers, is correct.
"I think that there is a lack of access to justice (for claimants in the United States)," said Bashir Khan, an immigration lawyer in Winnipeg. 
"In most of Canada, you do get ... a legal-aid assigned lawyer. You're not put in immigration detention, so you are able to make long-distance calls to gather evidence that your lawyer may tell you is needed."
Alastair Clarke, another immigration lawyer in the city, said he has represented people who have been rejected in the United States but are accepted in Canada.
"It happens regularly," he said.
"In the United States, there's a much higher rate of detention ... and when the individual is detained, it's much more difficult for them to access counsel. They have limited rights to legal counsel for legal advice, and the counsel who do represent them are often lawyers who don't specialize in (immigration)."
Statistics provided by the Immigration and Refugee Board show refugee claims from people fleeing some countries are approved more often than not. The statistics include all claims, not just those from people entering via the U.S.
The numbers are only for people who make their refugee claim at official border crossings or within Canada after getting across the border - not people who apply from abroad. And they only cover claims that have already been screened for eligibility by the Canada Border Services Agency or Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada.
In the first nine months of 2016, 54 per cent of claims from people who cited persecution in Ghana were approved. Two-thirds of Somalia-related claims were OKed and the success rate for people fleeing Djibouti was more than 90 per cent.
Some claimants arrive in Canada after making a trip across three continents along what has become a modern underground railroad.
Mohammed, a refugee claimant from Ghana who did not want his last name used, walked across the border near Emerson-Franklin in Manitoba last fall after flying from Africa to Brazil and on to Ecuador. He then spent three months making his way north on buses, a boat and on foot, he said, until he entered the United States near San Diego. He planned on making a new home in the U.S.
At the California border, he was put in a detention centre for 10 months and his claim was rejected, he said. He could not get a lawyer and was unprepared for the hearing, he added.
"You don't have any access to anything ... you cannot make a call to get whatever you have to to support your case.
"You're going to sit there. You, alone, meet a judge and a government lawyer who's a prosecutor."
In Canada, claimants are generally released pending their hearings and are supported by non-profit groups. Most provinces offer legal-aid for refugee claims.
Under U.S. law, asylum-seekers who have their claims rejected must be released from detention within six months. After that, they are subject to strict reporting conditions, knowing that one day they will be deported.
"They are eventually told, 'Your deportation is going to happen pretty soon, so make sure you're ready for it'," Khan said.
"When they sort of get that hint or a tip-off from immigration officials themselves, that's when they try to figure out how they can enter Canada and whether they could ... get a more fair process than the one they've gone through." !@COPYRIGHT= 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

676 of 996 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

January 28, 2016 Thursday

Friends and refugees in need

BYLINE: BY THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM 

ABSTRACT
A tidal wave of people threatens to overwhelm America's top ally, the European Union. 

FULL TEXT
Now in his last year in office, President Obama is in legacy mode. He has much to be proud of. But if he doesn't want his achievements muddied by foreign policy, he'll spend his last year redoubling his efforts to contain the Middle East refugee crisis before it goes from a giant humanitarian problem to a giant geostrategic problem that shatters America's most important ally: the European Union.
I know - putting ''European Union'' into the lead of a column published in America is like a ''Do Not Read'' sign. Maybe I should call it ''Trump's European Union.'' That would go viral. But for the two of you still reading, this is really important. 
The meltdowns of Syria, Somalia, Eritrea, Mali, Chad and Yemen and our takedowns of Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan - without proper follow-up on our part, NATO's part or by local elites - has uncorked the worst refugee crisis since World War II. This tidal wave of migrants and refugees is a human tragedy, and their outflow from Syria and Libya in particular is destabilizing all the neighboring islands of decency: Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon, Kurdistan and Turkey. And now it is eating away at the fabric of the E.U. as well.
Why should Americans care? Because the E.U. is the United States of Europe - the world's other great center of democracy and economic opportunity. It has its military shortcomings, but with its wealth and liberal values, the E.U. has become America's primary partner in addressing climate change, managing Iran and Russia and containing disorder in the Middle East and Africa.
This partnership amplifies American power and, if the E.U. is hobbled or fractured, America will have to do so many more things around the world with much less help.
At a seminar in Davos, Switzerland, sponsored by the Wilson Center, I interviewed David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee, which oversees relief operations in more than 30 war-affected countries. He made several key points.
First, one in every 122 people on the planet today is ''fleeing a conflict'' at a time when wars between nations ''are at a record low,'' said Miliband, a former British foreign secretary. Why? Because we now have nearly 30 civil wars underway in weak states that are ''unable to meet the basic needs of citizens or contain civil war.''
Second, he said, last year the rescue committee assisted 23 million refugees and internally displaced individuals. Some 50 percent of those going to Europe come directly out of Syria and most of the rest come from Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea - and the international humanitarian relief system ''is now being overwhelmed by the numbers.''
Last year, within the E.U. bloc there were 56 million truck crossings between countries and every day 1.7 million crossings by people. Preserving that free movement of trucks, trade and people, Miliband added, is a huge ''economic prize,'' but it will not be sustained if E.U. countries feel swamped by refugees who can't be properly registered or absorbed.
More and more countries are now sealing their borders, and anti-immigrant parties are rising everywhere. Sweden has imposed border controls, and its ultranationalist Sweden Democrats party has grown from the fringe to one of the largest. Many in Germany, Sweden and Austria, which have accepted the lion's share of refugees so far, want to seal off Greece from the E.U.'s passport-free internal travel zone if Greece - the first port of entry of many refugees - is unable or unwilling to hold them.
In the past few days, The Guardian reported, national leaders and top E.U. officials warned ''that Europe's passport-free travel zone could crumble within weeks, risking the dissolution of the union.''
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was well intentioned when she opened her country to 1.1 million Arab, African and Afghan migrants last year, but it was also reckless of her to think that so many immigrants, primarily Muslims, could be properly absorbed so quickly into society in Germany - a country that took two decades and billions of dollars to absorb East Germans. Merkel's open-door policy drew even more refugees to the E.U., and now that the Germans want to stop the flow, their neighbors won't take them.
''This refugee crisis is a real arrow pointed at the heart of the European Union,'' said Miliband. ''There is no solution that confines itself within the borders of Europe.'' As long as there is ''war without law and without end in Syria,'' the refugee flow will continue, with all its destabilizing implications.
Obama did not cause this Syria problem, and he can't fix it alone - but it's not going to get fixed without U.S. leadership. I have shared the president's caution about getting involved on the ground in Syria. But I now believe we need to take another look at establishing some kind of U.S./E.U./NATO safe zone inside Syria and Libya to create space for refugees to remain in these countries. It's not a panacea or cost-free, but letting this refugee disaster fracture the E.U. will be a lot more expensive.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

679 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Denver Post

November 9, 2016 Wednesday  
WED REGIONAL Edition

Australia seeks home for rejected refugees

BYLINE: Rod McGuirk

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 495 words

CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA Australia will find another country to resettle hundreds of asylum seekers now held on poor Pacific islands, a minister said Tuesday as his government planned to banish for life refugees who arrive by boat. 
Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declined to identify countries with which Australia is negotiating to accept almost 1,300 asylum seekers from Africa, the Middle East and Asia who are kept at Australia's expense in camps at Nauru and Papua New Guinea.
"We have been in negotiation with third countries for a long period of time and we are going to land a deal," Dutton told reporters, referring to countries that are neither the asylum seekers' homelands nor the country where they are currently kept.
The Australian newspaper reported last week that the United States and Canada could be among the countries that will accept Australia's asylum seekers.
Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in.
Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013.
The government also introduced to Parliament legislation that would ban such refugees from ever visiting Australia as a tourist, to do business or as an Australian's spouse.
"This legislation sends a strong message to people smugglers and those considering traveling illegally to Australia by boat that Australia's borders are now stronger than ever," Dutton told Parliament.
But the center left opposition Labor Party said it will not support the legislation. Without Labor's backing in the Senate, the conservative government will need to persuade independent and minor party senators to make the bill law.
"The idea that a citizen of the United States or Canada or New Zealand faces a lifetime ban preventing them from visiting Australia in 30 or 40 years' time is simply unacceptable," Labor leader Bill Shorten said.
Amnesty International, a London based human rights group, welcomed Labor's stance against "this callous and cruel legislation."
Australia has rejected a New Zealand offer to resettle 150 refugees. One of Australia's reasons is that those refugees could then become New Zealand citizens and be entitled to live in Australia without a visa under the rules of the close bilateral relationship.
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key last week talked down the prospect of a deal that would ban refugees accepted by New Zealand from ever traveling to Australia.
"We're not going to be in the process of creating different classes of New Zealand citizens," Key said.
Sydney's Daily Telegraph newspaper reported that up to 10 male asylum seekers from Iran and Iraq kept at Papua New Guinea married Australian women who worked at the immigration camp and had gained Australian spousal visas since 2012.
Dutton described such marriages as "sham arrangements" and said his government "won't tolerate the law being subverted."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Demonstrators march last week in an event in Sydney organized by Doctors for Refugees to demand humane treatment of asylum seekers and refugees, who are being held in camps in Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Peter Parks, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
All Rights Reserved

685 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Bismarck Tribune

November 9, 2016 Wednesday

Australia expects to resettle refugees

BYLINE: ROD McGUIRK Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 288 words

CANBERRA, Australia - Australia will find another country to resettle hundreds of asylum seekers now held on poor Pacific islands, a minister said Tuesday as his government planned to banish for life refugees who arrive by boat. 
Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declined to identify countries with which Australia is negotiating to accept almost 1,300 asylum seekers from Africa, the Middle East and Asia who are kept at Australia's expense in camps at Nauru and Papua New Guinea.
The Australian newspaper reported last week that the United States and Canada could be among the countries that will accept Australia's asylum seekers.
Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in.
Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013.
The government also introduced to Parliament legislation that would ban such refugees from ever visiting Australia as a tourist, to do business or as an Australian's spouse.
But the center-left opposition Labor Party said it will not support the legislation. Without Labor's backing in the Senate, the conservative government will need to persuade independent and minor-party senators to make the bill law.
Australia has rejected a New Zealand offer to resettle 150 refugees. One of Australia's reasons is that those refugees could then become New Zealand citizens and be entitled to live in Australia without a visa under the rules of the close bilateral relationship.
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key last week talked down the prospect of a deal that would ban refugees accepted by New Zealand from ever traveling to Australia.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
All Rights Reserved

691 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

September 16, 2001, Sunday

THE LOST BOYS

BYLINE: TAMARA LUSH

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY

 
A few days after 21 Sudanese refugees arrived in Pasco County, a question spread through the group.
Where, they wanted to know, was David Gray?
He was the man who brought them to the United States, a fatherlike figure from the international aid group World Relief. Gray's name and address had appeared in the corner of a brown envelope sent months earlier to their mud-and-grass huts at the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya. 
The Sudanese had been curious about David Gray ever since they received the letters that detailed their journey to America.
During an orientation meeting in a church hall with the Sudanese, another World Relief worker acknowledged that he had heard the many questions about Gray. The worker pointed to a man sitting in the back of the room.
It was David Gray.
The Sudanese clapped and grinned as he welcomed them to Pasco County.
During a 1987 civil war in Sudan, many children fled their villages and eventually settled in refugee camps. Workers dubbed these children the Lost Boys, after characters in the novel Peter Pan.
Gray acknowledged the transition from an African refugee camp to suburban Florida would be rocky.
"You have an advantage that most Americans don't have," he told the group. "You have your feet in two different cultures. Your heart is in Africa and the rest of your body is here."
Gray is well aware of the culture shock felt by refugees when the first arrive in West Pasco. During the past 10 years, Gray and his wife, Nancy, have helped resettle 2,500 people from other countries, about 1,000 of them in west Pasco.
As the directors of the local chapter of World Relief, they have resettled people from Bosnia, Cuba, Korea, Vietnam and now Sudan. By the end of this year, they will have resettled 50 Sudanese men.
They have helped bring diversity to west Pasco: with the arrival 50 Sudanese, World Relief has increased the black population in the greater Port Richey-New Port Richey area by 15 percent.
Nancy Gray acknowledged that over the years, some people haven't been happy with the county's newest residents.
"It bothers me when I hear people say, why are you bringing these people over here?" she said. "Look at what our country was built on before you ask that question. We're built on diversity."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, BRENDAN FITTERER, (4); David and Nancy Gray are directors of the local chapter of World Relief, an international group that helps refugees.; World Relief volunteer Jerry Richer, case worker Andrew McCray and Mike Salas of the Florida Center for Survivors of Torture lead the Sudanese men in prayer,; Magai About and Abraham Deng pick out cabbage at Kash n' Karry in Holiday during their first trip to an American supermarket.; Abraham Malok enjoys an impromptu reunion with John Deng, Magai About and Abraham Deng.

Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company

693 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

October 17, 2001, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Afghans can't eat dollars

BYLINE: Jack Leslie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 646 words

President Bush has asked each of America's children to donate a dollar to help Afghan refugee families, a commendable action. But money by itself is not enough.
If hundreds of thousands of lives are to be saved in and around Afghanistan, the United States needs to build a coalition of governments, foundations and corporations to provide Afghanistan with humanitarian aid and supplies -- and to exert pressure to ensure that international relief workers are able to help those in need.
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf joined the alliance against terrorism after the United States made it clear that it was time for him to choose sides in this new war. He did so at considerable political risk, as did others in the Muslim world who knew that would prompt violent anti-American protests and governments would have to respond quickly and forcefully to maintain stability.
 
We have meticulously sought cooperation on the use of airspace and territory for waging war. But we are falling short -- woefully short -- on seeking international cooperation in waging a campaign to assist millions of refugees in and around Afghanistan.
Right now, we do not even fully understand the magnitude of the refugee crisis, because the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which oversees relief efforts, cannot get its personnel into the most affected areas. Both Pakistan and Iran have sealed their borders to refugees. In Pakistan, U.N. personnel are confined to their offices because of security concerns. Most U.N. workers left Afghanistan several weeks ago, following the Taliban's decree that they do so, and angry mobs burned a UNICEF office on the border of Pakistan. Only a few have been able to return, and those who have face new dangers from the Taliban.
Lives slip away
Earlier this month, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, Ruud Lubbers, publicly expressed his frustration, saying this battle to save lives is being lost. Relief agencies can now get very little food, water and medical care to where it is most desperately needed. While the well-publicized U.S. airdrops are laudable, they are woefully inadequate, especially as the harsh Afghan winter approaches.
In the past, Pakistan and Iran have been generous in cooperating with international relief agencies. Since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, both countries opened their borders and hosted millions of refugees. Before Sept. 11, more than 2 million Afghan refugees were already living in camps in Pakistan. But Pakistan now is balking at allowing UNHCR to set up refugee camps in areas where they can be adequately supplied.
Uneasy truce dissolves
I have visited the refugee camps in Pakistan, and I traveled through the Khyber Pass to Kabul to meet with the Taliban just before the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Africa. At the time, there at least was an uneasy peace between the Taliban, the Pakistan government and international relief organizations. Although we could hear the shelling on the front line with the Northern Alliance outside Kabul, supplies were getting through. But that no longer happens.
We have heard many times in the past month that this war is different from all others we have fought. One element of it remains the same, however: It will result in millions of refugees caught in the crossfire. Most of these victims of war are barely subsisting, and many are dying in lands far from here.
The international community must make the same effort to join together for humanitarian relief as it has for waging war on terrorism. Financial support is not enough if political support does not exist.
Jack Leslie is chairman of the board of the United States Association for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a private, Washington-based charity that supports the UNHCR.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AFP; Destitute: Afghan refugees face brutal winter.

Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.

696 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

October 3, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. denies Israel refugee funds

BYLINE: Johanna Neuman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 513 words

Congressional calls for more aid to Poland already are stretching the U.S. budget, Baker added.
In the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, the United States limits the number of Soviet refugees, many of them Jews, coming to the USA to 50,000.
Consequently, a number of them - like Lev Gelfand, a 33-year-old engineer - have chosen Israel instead. 
''When my visa application to the U.S. was refused, I didn't reapply as I could have,'' said Gelfand, who's studying Hebrew in a Tel Aviv suburb.
''It made me think that if America doesn't want me, why should I be fighting to go there? I'm lucky I made that decision,'' said Gelfand, who arrived in Jerusalem a little more than three months ago with his wife and two children.
Gelfand is one of 350 Soviet Jews who have arrived in Israel since the beginning of the year from Italian transit camps after being refused U.S. visas.
While the number isn't yet large, Israeli officials see it as the forerunner of a heavy tide of Soviet Jews who'll be turning to Israel as the United States becomes more selective about who is let in.
''What is significant about these 350 is that they all planned to go somewhere else and changed their minds,'' says Ephraim Bluth, an immigration official. ''Last year none came from the Italian camps.''
Israel has sent emissaries to the camps to try to persuade the Russian emigrants to change direction.
''The picture we had of Israel in Russia was that it was a very dangerous place where there was no work and where the religious parties dominated,'' says Dr. Arkady Levitan, 50, who arrived in Jerusalem from Italy last month. ''It was painted as a desert.''
After waiting for five months in vain for a U.S. visa at the Ladispoli transit camp outside Rome, Levitan and his wife, Galina, a biochemist, decided to opt for Israel.
''We spoke to an Israeli emissary,'' says Galina Levitan. ''He told us it was no paradise but that it was a place where our 13-year-old son could grow feeling that he belonged. We found a beautiful country.''
Valerie Mishiyev, 36, a teacher of English, reached Ladispoli, but before even applying for a U.S. visa, he decided to come to Israel.
''I figured that America doesn't need Russian English teachers,'' he said. He too was surprised to find a modern country with well-stocked stores. Some 7,000 Jews are now leaving the Soviet Union each month.
''Last year we had 2,000 Russian emigrants,'' said Bluth. ''This year we expect about 8,000. Next year we hope to get 20,000 and some optimists even say 50,000.''
Contributing: Abe Rabinovich in Jerusalem
 TEXT OF GRAPHIC
Refugees: 125,000 due The United States will allow 125,000 refugees to enter the country in fiscal 1990, which began Oct. 1. Limits on the refugees by region:

Africa           3,000

Eastern Asia

Vietnamese     26,500
Others         25,000
Soviet Union    50,000
Eastern Europe   6,500

Latin America,

Caribbean       3,500

Near East and

South Asia      6,500
Others           4,000 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w (chart)

Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.

700 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

April 30, 2018 Monday 19:56 EST 

A Refugee Caravan is Hoping for Asylum in the U.S. How Are These Cases Decided?

BYLINE: Miriam Jordan

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1797 words


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the explosion of asylum applicants and how managing them has become one of the Trump administration's toughest immigration challenges.

Russian ballet dancers, Cuban baseball players and Chinese political dissidents. These are the kind of people fleeing persecution in their homelands who typically won asylum in the United States over the years.
In many cases, they were in the country for a theatrical performance, a conference or a sports tournament, then sought refuge. Think Martina Navratilova, the Czech tennis player, who defected during the 1975 U.S. Open.
Over the past five years, though, the number of asylum applications has skyrocketed. Civil wars in Africa, gang violence in Central America and government crackdowns in China have contributed to a backlog of hundreds of thousands of cases and processing times of up to six years. This presents a range of challenges to U.S. authorities, who are required under international law to give all of the cases careful consideration.
This week, a caravan of 150 to 200 migrants, mainly from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, is waiting at the Mexican border in Tijuana to claim asylum, hoping to win permission to stay in the United States. But President Trump has urged his administration to redouble its efforts to enforce border laws, referring to the caravan over the weekend as "that mess," and declaring, "We have the worst laws anywhere in the world, we don't have borders." 
Here's a look at how we got here, and what America's legal obligations are.
What is the legal backdrop?
The international agreement to protect asylum seekers emerged after the horrific events of World War II. The United Nations signed the refugee convention in 1951, which the United States ratified and incorporated into law in 1980.
The goal is to provide a safe haven for those who can prove they are fleeing persecution in their homeland.
What's the difference between a refugee and an asylum-seeker?
There are two ways people can win protection and the right to live permanently in the United States. In both cases they must prove the same well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group.
People who apply and are selected overseas eventually enter the United States as refugees.
Many of them, hundreds of thousands, remain parked in camps as the refugee application process unfolds, typically over several years. That process involves several interviews with United Nations and American officials. The United States also conducts several layers of security screening.
People already on United States soil apply for asylum.
Alexander Godunov, a principal dancer with the renowned Bolshoi Ballet, was granted asylum in the United States in 1979. He was the first of several dancers to defect from the Bolshoi during that year's tour in the United States. He requested asylum in New York City and received it immediately. Ms. Navratilova received asylum in October 1975, a month after filing for it.
During the 1980s, civil war in El Salvador displaced several hundred thousand people. Tens of thousands flocked to the United States and applied for political asylum.
Nowadays, the process of applying for asylum often takes years to complete, from start to finish. It involves interviews with United States immigration officials and often with immigration judges.
Whether people entered the country legally or not, they are eligible to apply for asylum.
The surge
The world is suffering the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are now a staggering number of refugees, asylum-seekers and displaced people -- about 50 million.
Violence around the globe is pushing desperate people to seek safety across international borders. People from the Middle East and Africa are taking rickety boats and making treacherous treks to reach Europe. They are less likely to show up at the southwest border of the United States than people from Latin America who are, relatively speaking, nearby and can come over land.
In recent years, violence in Central America -- it has some of the highest murder rates in the world -- has prompted tens of thousands of people since 2014 to make the perilous journey to the United States.
The migrants either turn themselves in at the border to American authorities or sneak into the country illegally. Regardless, they then declare that they are seeking asylum.
Before 2011, only 1 percent of all arriving foreigners requested asylum. Today, one out of 10 apply, according to government officials.
The caravan
Jeff Sessions, the United States Attorney General, called the caravan now awaiting processing at the San Ysidro port of entry a "deliberate attempt to undermine our laws and overwhelm our system."
"There is no right to demand entry without justification," he said, adding that he would deploy prosecutors to handle cases.
Indeed, there are signs that the administration is seeking to disqualify certain applicants, such as victims of domestic violence, who have sometimes won asylum. Recently, Mr. Sessions suggested they should not be eligible.
Yet the law does require authorities to accept and consider their petitions.
Once they are processed at the port of entry, they are likely to be transferred to a detention facility where they must pass the first step in the asylum process, a "credible-fear" interview with an officer of the United States Immigration and Citizenship Services.
The number of credible-fear interviews conducted by the federal agency has soared from 5,000 in 2007 to 80,000 last year.
More than three quarters of those interviewed pass that screening and are referred to an immigration judge for hearings that may span months or longer. (Those who fail the interview can be deported immediately.)
Asylum applicants awaiting a hearing before a judge either remain in detention or are released wearing a tracking device, such as an ankle monitor, with a date to appear in court.
Many Central Americans stay with friends and relatives who already live in the United States. Once 180 days have passed after filing of their application, they are eligible to work in the United States. Their children attend public schools.
Because some migrants in the past have skipped their court hearings, Mr. Trump has criticized the practice of releasing migrants, describing it as "catch and release." In recent months, his administration has ordered border officers to, when possible, keep these migrants in detention, rather than release them.
"While these asylum seekers are, on paper, eligible for consideration for release on parole, in reality ICE holds them in detention for long periods of time," said Eleanor Acer, director of refugee protection for Human Rights First.
United States officials say the administration is trying to figure out how to deal with the surge in asylum applications in a manner that is consistent with its international obligations.
Part of the problem is that immigration courts are clogged, and not just with asylum cases.
At of the end of March, there were 692,298 cases in the backlog, according to Syracuse University's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, which tracks the trends. The average wait time for current pending cases was 718 days, or nearly two years.
Are their claims legitimate?
Central Americans who apply for asylum often have been threatened with death or suffered attacks at the hands of gangs. Often mothers flee to protect their children from recruitment.
"We have seen firsthand the extraordinarily violent conditions in the Northern Triangle of Central America that forces families and children to flee their homes in search of urgently needed safety in the U.S.," said Jennifer Sime, senior vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue Committee.
"Those who qualify and are fleeing violence, who have no other route to protection, should be granted safety and asylum," she said.
Immigrant advocates say their circumstances are akin to those faced by people escaping war in Syria or Somalia. However, it is more difficult for Central Americans to win their cases.
"A huge percentage of these people get deported," said Marty Rosenbluth, an immigration attorney. "It's a really difficult struggle to win asylum."
Mr. Rosenbluth said that all of his asylum cases based on gang violence have failed because his clients could not establish that they fit into a social group suffering particular persecution to qualify.
In some cases, judges have found that applicants fabricated or exaggerated their claims, though that is not usually the case.
Immigration court records show that more asylum cases were denied over the previous five years than have been granted. In fiscal year 2016, 62 percent of asylum cases were denied, compared with 44.5 percent five years earlier. Among Mexicans and Central Americans, the approval rate is substantially lower.
Are some people just looking for a better life?
Simply wanting a better life does not meet the international criteria to qualify for asylum. But there are people who apply anyway because it gives them some benefits, albeit temporarily, even if they ultimately lose their case.
Since the election of Mr. Trump, undocumented immigrants who have lived in the country for many years and fear deportation have been applying for asylum, knowing that they are unlikely to win, but hoping to remain in the country legally for a time.
While their application crawls through the courts, they can obtain work permits and driver's licenses.
The administration, which has taken a hard-line on immigration, has said that it is seeking to expedite asylum cases and crack down on abuse.
"There is a significant increase in terms of individuals seeking asylum," said Jennifer Higgins, an associate director at United States Immigration and Citizenship Services who handles refugee and asylum issues. "Our goal is to make sure we have a fair and efficient asylum system. Right now we have individuals exploiting it. That means legitimate applicants will suffer."
The government has also said that it will prosecute those who break immigration law.
In the case of the caravan, critics say that it would be a violation of international law to conduct speedy hearings for the caravan members at the expense of a full hearing of their claims.
"The Trump administration has made clear that asylum seekers associated with the caravan will be subjected to detention, criminal prosecutions, and rushed proceedings, in essence punishing them for seeking refugee protection," said Ms. Acer.
But Ms. Higgins said officials are assigning staff and officers to help house and process all those admitted for hearings, wherever they end up.
Alain Delaqueriere contributed research. 

Related Articles

	Migrant Caravan of Asylum Seekers Reaches U.S. Border
	Inside an Immigrant Caravan: Women and Children, Fleeing Violence
	'You Hate America!': How the 'Caravan' Story Exploded on the Right

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

701 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

November 18, 2004 Thursday Final Edition

News in Brief

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 327 words

Province spending $107m to trim lengthy wait times
TORONTO The Ontario government is spending $107 million in an effort to start reducing lengthy wait times for some of the most critical medical procedures, Health Minister George Smitherman said yesterday.
The province is anxious to dramatically increase the number of cancer surgeries, heart procedures and hip and knee replacements, he told a convention of hospital professionals.
The ministry expects the funds will allow for 805 more cardiac surgeries, 1,680 hip and knee replacements, 2,000 more cataract procedures and more cancer surgeries and MRI/CT exams. The money will be used to pay for new equipment such as MRI machines and CT scanners, as well as a new provincial registry to track wait times. 
Sudanese refugee camp key destination for Martin
OTTAWA The suffering in a Sudanese refugee camp could be the signature image of Paul Martin's 10-day trip abroad where he will push for reform of global institutions.
A visit to the camp's schoolhouse will highlight Martin's effort to promote change and prevent humanitarian crises like the one in Sudan.
The one-day stop in strife-ridden Sudan will come in the middle of a tour of South America and Africa.
The trip kicks off today when Martin leaves for the Asia-Pacific summit in Santiago, Chile, where he is expected to meet Saturday with U.S. President George W. Bush. Martin will raise the tragic civil strife in Haiti, Sudan and Cote d'Ivoire while pressing his case for reform.
Time to reopen debate on assisted suicide: Cotler
OTTAWA Justice Minister Irwin Cotler says it's time for Parliament to reopen the public debate on assisted suicide.
He says some recent high-profile cases in British Columbia and Quebec have renewed questions about whether the law banning assisted suicide should be changed.
Cotler's remarks seem poised to blow the decades-old debate over assisted suicide wide open again.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

Copyright 2004 Metroland Media Group Ltd

703 of 996 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

November 17, 2015 Tuesday

Mercury News editorial:

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 460 words

The Islamic State's carnage in Paris throws down a new gauntlet. It presents a heightened challenge to the free world's ability to protect its people -- and to America's character as a nation, as governors and presidential candidates cravenly seize the moment to oppose accepting Syrian refugees. 
Militarily, President Obama's declaration that our ISIS strategy will be the same only more so is unlikely to last. We need to develop real partnerships with nations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa that have suffered attacks by ISIS. Surely France isn't the only one ready to take the threat seriously and fully share responsibility for eliminating it.
The threat to our nation's integrity and core values is a different matter, however. We need to own that.
Before the Paris attack, Obama agreed to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the United States -- a modest number that would fill about half the seats in San Jose's arena. Still, Republican presidential candidates objected, and now Republican governors are clamoring to declare they will not accept refugees in their states.
At least two presidential candidates, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush, have suggested we might help Christians but not Muslim families. Many of the 250,000 men, women and children who have died in Syria's war have been Muslim.
Fortunately, intelligent and conscientious voices also are rising -- including that of the vice chair of California's Republican Party, Harmeet Dillon. She wrote on Facebook: "Let's be careful, and smart, and vigilant, but not lose our humanity, and not turn on our fellow human beings with hateful rhetoric by judging them guilty just because of where they came from seeking peace and safety."
Amen to that. Fortunately, California's Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, Sen. Dianne Feinstein and other state leaders feel the same. California will continue to accept refugees who have been thoroughly vetted.
In Europe -- particularly Germany -- a tradition of welcoming refugees has led to a flood of them. One of the Paris attackers may have entered with them, and it's legitimate to wonder whether others might slip in among those fleeing rather than making war.
But in the United States, here's the thing the anti-refugee grandstanders either don't know or choose to ignore: Syrian refugees already are carefully screened before they enter this country and again when they arrive here.
It can take two years to pass all the litmus tests, including biometric-based investigations and background checks ranging from work history to terrorist databases. About 70 percent of the 1,800 refugees admitted since the war began have been women and children.
One litmus test they have not had to pass is religion. To remain a nation worth fighting for, America needs to keep it that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

704 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Christian Science Monitor

August 16, 2006, Wednesday

Reporters on the Job

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 305 words

* African Refugees: Correspondent Rob Crilly has reported from several refugee camps in Africa, including ones in Darfur and Uganda. But he says that the camp housing 136,000 refugees in northern Kenya is one of the best organized, despite the influx of new refugees.
"It's been here for 15 years. As a result, the Care International compound includes meeting rooms, satellite TV, and even guest accommodations for visiting journalists and diplomats," says Rob. 
"It's not like Darfur, for example, where the newly established camps are little more than patches of sand. Refugees, too, have all the trappings of a permanent, self-contained city. There are Internet cafes and shopping stalls selling tea and coffee.
"The permanency of the camp is an indication of the enduring nature of Somalia's refugee problem," he says.
* Anti-American Anger: The anti-US feeling keeps flowing out of the rubble of Lebanon, says staff writer Scott Peterson. He's heard similar diatribes for years from Iran to Somalia. But this is among the worst.
He notes that Hizbullah is capitalizing on it with large banners, stretched across bombed buildings, that say "Made in the USA" in English, and "America is the head of terrorism" in Arabic.
"People have been spitting out their anger, pointing to the rubble, and asking me if this is US democracy," says Scott.
"On Tuesday, one man leaned out the window of his house, and shouted a series of expletives in English," says Scott. "Then, he said that Americans 'will teach our children to hate them, as long as they live.' Without missing a beat, the schoolteacher who I was interviewing on the street replied, 'They already have.' "
David Clark Scott
World editor
Let us hear from you.
Mail to: One Norway Street, Boston, MA 02115 via e-mail: world(at)csmonitor.com
(c) Copyright 2006. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 The Christian Science Publishing Society
All Rights Reserved

707 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 27, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST 

The Closing of Trump's America; 
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: ROGER COHEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 841 words


HIGHLIGHT: A rough translation of "America First" is Muslims last.

Donald Trump is an ahistorical man. He knows nothing of European history and cares less, as his cavalier trashing of the alliance and union that ushered the Continent from its darkest hours demonstrates.
He knows little enough of American history to have chosen as his rallying cry "America First," a slogan with a past clouded by allies-be-damned isolationism at the start of World War II. (Or perhaps that's why he embraced it.)
The president does not even know the history of the C.I.A., as his self-regarding speech before the hallowed Memorial Wall showed. This was desecration of patriotic sacrifice through advanced narcissistic disorder. 
He called the speech a "home run."
Great. Terrific. Phenomenal. Tremendous. Fabulous. Beautiful. How Trump has hollowed out these words. How arid, even nauseating, he has made them. They mean nothing. They are space-fillers issuing with a thudding regularity from his uncurious mind, and in the end of course they are all about him. Emptying words of meaning is an essential step on the road to autocratic rule. People need to lose their bearings before they prostrate themselves.
From Trump's White House there now seeps a kind of ignorance mixed with vulgarity and topped with meanness that I find impossible to wash from my skin. I wake up to its oleaginous texture.
This is worse than had seemed possible: Trump's inexhaustible obsession with the crowd size at the inauguration; his constant untruths; his perverse inability to accept that he won the election, to the point that he wants to investigate the popular vote that he lost; his startling lust for torture, walls, banishment and carnage.
"The world is a total mess," he told David Muir of ABC. Funny, I travel the world and that was not my impression a week ago.
The president does not like Muslims. That, too, is clear. It was obvious when he called during the campaign for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States. It was obvious when he showed contempt for the parents of a fallen Muslim American soldier killed in Iraq. It is obvious now as he attempts to justify a planned suspension of visas for Syrians, Iranians, Iraqis and citizens of four other majority Muslim Middle Eastern and African countries, as well as a temporary ban on almost all refugees.
A rough translation of "America First" is Muslims last. "It's not the Muslim ban," Trump insisted to Muir. No. It's just a ban on lots of Muslims.
Trump said, in the ABC interview, that the people to be barred "are going to come in and cause us tremendous problems." He declared: "They're ISIS."
There is no credible evidence for this wild claim, a smear on entire populations. (Saudi Arabia, the source of most 9/11 terrorists, is unsurprisingly not on the list.)
In their overwhelming majority refugees are fleeing violence in their homelands, not plotting it against the United States. They do not put their little children in dinghies on the high seas because they have a choice but because they have no choice.
Screening to get into the United States is already rigorous, one reason only a tiny fraction of some 5 million Syrian refugees have come here.
A Cato Institute study of refugees admitted to the United States between 1975 and 2015 found that the chance of an American being killed in a terrorist attack committed by a refugee is 1 in 3.64 billion.
This is policy fed by anger and prejudice, not reason. The wall announcement has already provoked a damaging clash with Mexico. The proposed visa and refugee measures are not about keeping America safe. They are conceived to nurture an atmosphere of nationalist xenophobia.
Trump has been right to call jihadi Islamist terrorism by its name. But conflating a religion of 1.6 billion people with it is no way to fight it. As for his promise of safe areas within Syria, we will see.
I am lucky enough to live in Brooklyn Heights with a view out over the East River to lower Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty. So while watching President Donald Trump's dark inaugural speech a week ago I was able at the same time to glance out at the torch that symbolizes American openness and generosity of spirit.
As Trump's "AMERICA FIRST," "AMERICA FIRST" echoed across my living room I thought of Emma Lazarus' words inscribed on the pedestal of the statue:
"Give me your tired, your poor,
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore."
Friedrich Trump, a penniless German immigrant, was one of those "huddled masses" back in 1885. Lucky he did not attempt to enter the America taking shape under his grandson.
Over time, but not without struggle, I believe the ideals represented by the torch will prove stronger than Trump's fear-filled jingoistic darkness. America cannot be itself without these ideals, and Americans will fight to preserve them. It is, after all, how they became who they are.
You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

709 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 18, 2004 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

Mary F. Diaz, 42, Head of Commission For War Refugees

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 340 words

Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. She was 42 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, the commission announced. 
 Ms. Diaz's organization, a volunteer group that works to provide a voice for women and children in war zones, is a nongovernmental group that advocates for refugees before the United Nations and around the world.
 Mary Diaz had led the group since 1994 and continued her work until late last year.
 The commission, working under the auspices of the International Rescue Committee, was founded in 1989 by the actress Liv Ullman. Ms. Diaz became its chief investigator, strategist, watchdog and lobbyist.
 She deployed volunteers in Africa, the Middle East, South America and trouble spots like Kosovo and Afghanistan. She often went to the scene herself, visiting refugees in Bosnia and Burundi fleeing to the relative safety in Tanzania.
 Mary Diaz was born in Newport News, Va., and grew up in suburban Pottstown, Pa.
 She focused on international relations at Brown, graduating in 1982. She took a job at a Philadelphia television station writing news late in the day, which left her time for volunteer work helping refugees to settle in the city. Her calling gradually shifted from the newsroom to the outside world. She studied administration, planning and social policy at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, receiving a master's degree in international education in 1988. She became director of refugee and immigration services for Catholic Charities in Boston before becoming head of the Women's Commission in New York.
 Ms. Diaz is survived by her partner, Tom Ferguson; her mother, Bertha Diaz of Pottstown; two brothers, Dr. Philip Diaz of Columbus, Ohio, and Dr. Joseph Diaz of Barrington, R.I.; and two sisters, Teresa Diaz of Reading, Pa., and Bernadette Diaz of Oak Park, Ill.                                                

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Mary Frances Diaz

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company

713 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 18, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 861 words


International   A3-8
 
TOUGH WELCOME FOR RWANDANS
Thousands of returning Rwandan refugees began to grapple with a host of new problems -- finding food, jobs and housing -- as they tried to recover lives interrupted by two years of war and flight. A1
 
REFUGEES RETURN FOR 3d DAY
For a third day, hundreds of thousands of refugees trudged back home to Rwanda, but United Nations officials said that the pace of the exodus had slackened and that it would probably end by today. A6
 
CROATIA AFTER TUDJMAN
The death of President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, who is ill with cancer, would probably strengthen hard-line nationalists hostile to a Muslim-Croat federation and the idea of democracy. A8
 
RUSSIAN SPACE PROBE FAILS
An unmanned Russian probe that failed to break out of Earth's orbit re-entered the atmosphere above the Pacific Ocean west of South America and apparently crashed into the sea, American officials said. A3
 
WORLD FOOD SUMMIT ENDS
The World Food Summit ended in Rome with a vague pledge to do better, Vatican opposition to population control and American reservations about an internationally recognized right to be fed. A3
 
FIGHTING CRIME IN IRELAND
The hottest political debate in Ireland is about rising crime, and the hottest theater ticket is for a production of "West Side Story" by the inmates of Mountjoy Prison. A8
 
CRISIS MANAGEMENT FOR CLINTON
News analysis: A week of crisis management left President Clinton nearly forced to go along with decisions on Bosnia and Central Africa by allies tired of waiting for American leadership. A6
 
ROMANIA VOTES FOR CHANGE
Romanians made a clear break with the past and elected a mild-mannered geology professor and reformer, Emile Constantinescu, as President. A8
 
Dreux Journal: The politics of jobs and immigrants. A4
 
National   A12-15, B10-11
 
A SOCIETAL SHIFT
Some segments of the black population are beginning to experience a turnaround in many areas, after suffering through a decade of rising drug use, growing violence, disintegrating families and declining measures of health. A1
 
CHILD PORNOGRAPHY RING INQUIRY
For two years, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been looking into a computer programming and telemarketing business that is run by inmates at a Minnesota correctional institution after agents seized child pornography files. A1
 
PUBLISHING VS. ACADEMIC NEEDS
The scholars still need to publish to get university jobs, but the publishing industry is balking at books lacking commercial appeal. A1
 
C.I.A. EMPLOYEE CALLED A SPY
A career Central Intelligence Agency employee has been arrested on charges that he passed highly classified information to the Russians over a period of several years. A1
 
CONFLICT AT CRASH HEARINGS
Top executives of Valujet Airline and Sabretech, the two companies that blame each other for the crash of a DC-9 in the Everglades last May, will both appear in hearings on the crash. A12
 
BOOKS FOR CHILDREN
From a living room in Eugene, Ore., a one-woman charity called The Libri Foundation, gives children's books to libraries in towns with populations under 5,000. A12
 
DEMOCRATS DISMISS FUND-RAISER
The Democratic National Committee dismissed John Huang, the senior fund-raiser who was suspended last month following reports that he had solicited questionable contributions. A12
 
ANGER OVER ORGAN DONATIONS
The decision to move people with acute liver failure to the top of the list for transplants has alarmed patients with chronic liver disease and angered some doctors. A15
 
A BOYCOTT UNDER WAY
A boycott and demonstrations cut business at some Texaco stations, but it was difficult to determine how many sales the company had lost at its 14,000 retail outlets. B10
 
Metro Report   B1-9
 
FIGHTING PATAKI ON WELFARE
Now that Gov. George E. Pataki has released his long-awaited plan to reconstruct New York's $4 billion welfare system, the debate has shifted to the Legislature, where many Democrats are already vowing to block major portions of his initiative. A1
 
Business Digest   D1
 
Arts/Entertainment   C11-17
 
Museum tours feature celebrity voices. C11
The casting director Bernard Telsey. C11
Theater: "The Waste Land." C11
Music: Billy Bragg. C12
"Cosi Fan Tutti" and "Rigoletto" at the Met. C13
Kate and Anna McGarrigle. C14
Dance: A Barnard sampler. C15
Books: "The Rain on Macy's Parade." C14
Television: Purcell's "Dido and Aeneas" on PBS. C16
 
Sports   C1-10
 
Football: Colts down Jets. C1
Cardinals top Giants. C1
Broncos crush Patriots. C3
N.F.L. roundup C8
Columns: On College Football C2
Anderson on Broncos C3
On Pro Football C4
 
Obituaries   B12
 
Editorials/Op-Ed   A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Deciding which patients to save.
Eastern Europe's voters.
Say yes to superstores.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Hatred at large.
Bob Herbert: An elephant's tale.
William Safire: With an all-new cast.
Henry Alford: Step aside? Who, me?
Linda Chavez: The Hispanic political tide.
 
Chronicle   B6
 
Bridge   C14
 
Crossword   C14

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

715 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

November 2, 2014 Sunday  
METRO EDITION

DRAWN NORTH

BYLINE: MILA KOUMPILOVA; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1591 words


HIGHLIGHT: After a dip in 2008, a second wave of Somali refugees is arriving in the state. But with fewer family ties, this group faces a new set of challenges

A week after the United States government resettled them in Connecticut this summer, Nur Ali and his wife, Mahado Mohamed, had decided: They were moving to Minnesota.
Tales of the state's large Somali community had intrigued them back in the Kenyan refugee camp where they had married and had five children. Now, a Somali man they met in Hartford told them all recent arrivals head to Minnesota, home of "Little Mogadishu."
After a major dip in 2008, the yearly numbers of new Somali refugees in Minnesota have rebounded steadily. The number of Somalis resettled in the state has more than tripled in four years. As resettlements nationally have picked up, more Somalis are also arriving here after brief stints in other states - often trading early support from resettlement agencies for the company of more fellow Somalis.
"You tend to go somewhere you can connect," said Mohamud Noor, the head of the Confederation of Somali Community in Minnesota. "Before people even arrive from Africa, they know they are coming to Minnesota." 
But without the Twin Cities family ties of earlier arrivals, these newcomers often can't lean as heavily on longer-term Somali residents. Mary's Place, a Minneapolis homeless shelter, has become ground zero for families like Ali and Mohamed's. Somali participation in the state's public food assistance program doubled in the past five years. Meanwhile, the Minneapolis School District, its Somali student enrollment up 70 percent since 2011, launched eight classrooms with instruction in both English and Somali to help newcomers catch up.
In some ways, Ali and Mohamed have had a steeper learning curve than Somalis who settled in Minnesota in the 1990s and early 2000s. The couple spent their entire adult lives in tents at Kenya's sprawling, overcrowded Hagadera refugee camp. They didn't have family or close friends who resettled in America before them, and their notion of life in the United States was forged out of camp legend.
"We always used to think when you come to America, you have a lot of money and life is really easy," Ali said through a translator. "We have been surprised."
Ali and Mohamed are part of a new wave of Somali refugees. Until 2008, the state resettled only refugees reuniting with family here.
But that year, DNA tests showed only about 20 percent of applicants in a refugee family reunification program, most of them from Africa, were actually related to their stateside sponsors. The program was suspended, even as Somalis argued a broader definition of family was as much a factor as fraud. The number of new Somali arrivals plummeted, from a high of more than 3,200 in 2006 to 180 in 2009.
Meanwhile, more stringent background checks for refugees in 2010 snarled the application process. Larry Bartlett, the U.S. Refugee Admissions program director, says the streamlining of security checks since and the resumption of the family reunification program in 2012 led to the recent increase in Somali arrivals - a trend he expects to continue in the next few years.
In the fiscal year that ended in September, Minnesota welcomed almost 1,050 Somali refugees arriving directly from Africa, most of them without family ties to the state. Nationally, 9,000 Somalis were resettled, up from about 2,500 in 2008.
No 'out-migration'
The exact numbers of Somalis moving to Minnesota from other states are hard to track. But there's little doubt their ranks have swelled, too. The federal Office of Refugee Resettlement compiles partial numbers showing about 2,620 total refugee arrivals from other states in 2013, up from 1,835 two years earlier - making Minnesota the state with the highest in-migration by far.
"This has always been an issue for Minnesota," said Kim Dettmer of Lutheran Social Service, one of the agencies that helps resettle refugees who come directly to Minnesota. "We have in-migration. We don't really have out-migration."
After arriving from Kampala, Uganda, Ayan Ahmed and her nine children, ages 4 to 18, spent six months in Phoenix. There, Catholic Charities had lined up a furnished four-bedroom home for the family and a neurologist for Ahmed's eldest son, who is blind.
But then, some financial support Ahmed received as a refugee was about to dry up, and she worried about covering her $1,200 rent. Most Somali families she met in Phoenix were longtime residents, the struggles of adjusting to a new country long behind them. They urged her to go to Minnesota and raised money for the plane tickets.
Ahmed, who is staying at Mary's Place, says local Somalis have picked up groceries and takeout food for her, and lent a compassionate ear: "Some days, I feel I stayed in Mogadishu."
Challenges for newcomers
Ali, a five-month pregnant Mohamed and their kids arrived in Minneapolis four months ago without a detailed plan. They had used up most of their refugee cash payments for the plane tickets.
At the airport, they met a Somali cabdriver who offered to drive them to Village Market, a Somali mall in south Minneapolis. The family went to the mosque inside the mall, prayed and asked for help. A Somali family agreed to put them up for the night and took them to Mary's Place the next day. There, the couple, their five older children and newborn daughter sleep on three bunk beds in their tidy apartment.
In some ways, things are looking up: Ali is taking English classes and recently found a full-time job as a butcher in a halal market. They have health insurance and food stamps. But they have found they can rely only so much on local Somalis, who are busy with their own lives. And saving up enough money to move into their own place is an elusive goal that weighs heavily on Ali.
With limited ties to the local Somali community, recent Somali arrivals face a new set of challenges. Community leaders say it used to be unthinkable that a Somali family should land in a homeless shelter: Newcomers could invoke the most tenuous family connection to move into famously hospitable Somali homes indefinitely.
But these days longer-term residents recovering from the recession might balk at putting up complete strangers. Meanwhile, affordable housing for large families is scarce, especially in Hennepin County.
Ironically, community activists such as Abdirizak Bihi say, these newcomers might need more support than earlier arrivals. Many have spent most of their lives in makeshift camps such as Qabri Bayah in Ethiopia, with basic amenities and limited access to formal education.
When these refugees move too soon after arriving in a different state, they get cut off from resettlement agencies there responsible for finding homes and jobs for them. Noor, whose group tries to assist newcomers with navigating the transition, says the federal government needs to do more to discourage this early migration. At the U.S. State Department, Bartlett says staff members strive to honor refugees' host city preference. Some refugees even sign a document affirming they are going to the city where they want to stay.
"The problem with moving quickly is that the benefits don't always follow you," Bartlett said. "We really try to impress that upon them."
Adjusting to the influx
Mary Jo Copeland, the founder of Mary's Place, says as many as 60 of the shelter's roughly 90 units are occupied by Somali families, generally recent arrivals from Africa by way of another state. Copeland, who hired two Somali-speaking advocates to help
the families with job- and apartment-hunting and more, says these residents have impressed her: They take English classes, keep their apartments immaculate and save up everything they earn working at day cares, groceries and cab companies.
"You name the state, they are from all over," she said. "As soon as they move out, others move in."
The number of Somali adults and children who participated in the state's family cash assistance program jumped 34 percent from 2008 to 2013, to 5,950. At the same time, food assistance participation increased 98 percent, to 17,300 adults and children, which does not include U.S.-born Somalis. Census numbers place the Minnesota Somali community at more than 33,000, a count Somali leaders say underestimates its size by tens of thousands.
The Minneapolis School District responded to a major uptick in new Somali students by launching the NABAD program, an acronym that's also a greeting in Somali. The district is almost 10 percent Somali this fall. The new classrooms - two last year, eight this fall after promising early results - feature an English language learner teacher and a Somali-speaking aide. Students spend a school year there before joining the mainstream.
At Andersen United Community School, teacher Stephany Jallo and her third- through fifth-graders recently went over a picture book called "Nabeel's New Pants," about a group of kids who receive clothes as gifts to wear for the Islamic holiday Eid. At each of Jallo's questions, hands shot up. Other students looked to Hamdi Ahmed, a visiting co-teacher, who translated into Somali.
Jallo says four of her 20 students came with no formal education, but most are making rapid progress: "I have no doubt I have future doctors, lawyers, teachers and scientists in my class."
Ali and Mohamed's kids also have academic catching up to do. These days, the parents worry about affording winter coats, an apartment and furniture. But when they see their kids cracking open their homework minutes after getting home - the glass facade of Target Field gleaming beyond the kitchen window - Ali and Mohamed's faces fill with hope.
Mila Koumpilova  612-673-4781

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 Star Tribune
All Rights Reserved

717 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

April 11, 2005 Monday

Newcomers grab lifelines

BYLINE: Lucinda Dillon Kinkead and Dennis Romboy Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 899 words

   Koffi Djagba is known by refugees to be a tough caseworker. He rides his refugees to get jobs, to learn English. He does not coddle them, and he doesn't give anything away.
"I am very tough on them, because I have to be," said Djagba, who is himself a refugee from the African country of Togo. 
He visits their homes and pays close attention to the way the children progress. He watches the way they dress, how the house looks. He takes note of whether family members are at home when they should be and gone to school or work at appropriate times.
Without close supervision, Djagba says, young refugees especially get snared in all the same bad behavior that challenges Westerners. "This will not help them on the road to the future," he said.
It is the job of Koffi Djagba, and many others in positions like his, to help refugees navigate these "American ways."
Caseworkers at Catholic Community Services, the International Rescue Committee and Jewish Family Services are the lifeline for refugees for months when they step off the plane in Utah.
Even before the plane touches down, these caseworkers have rented apartments and arranged for furniture for refugee families. They meet the plane, introduce newcomers to their homes, buy food for the first few nights, and depending on the education and history of the refugees, walk them through living skills from the obtuse to the obvious.
How to use the bus. How to use the stove. How to use a key. How to learn to drive. How to get food stamps. How to shop at the grocery store. Caseworkers take refugees to get their Social Security cards, to health screenings, to ESL classes and to job training workers.
They know the lay of the land because most are refugees themselves.
Galena Bakina followed her son here as a refugee from Uzbekistan in 1992.
After the breakup of the Soviet Union and individual nations gaining independence, they lived in Uzbekistan. "It became very dangerous for anyone who wasn't Muslim."
Some were persecuted or humiliated in public. Other Jews were beaten or threatened in their homes.
Galena Bakina's son left the country first. Dmitri, his wife and 18-month-old son were granted refugee status after a laborious wait, and they came to the United States from Moscow in 1990.
Now Bakina works with Jewish Family Services helping Russians gain citizenship and learn English.
Sala Awad worked in a post office and a warehouse before landing his position at the International Rescue Committee.
"It was kind of a dream job," he said. "Helping people was my priority."
As a case manager, Awad helps some of the world's most helpless people -- newly arrived refugees who don't have a clue about living in America.
He is a refugee himself, from Somalia by way of Kenya and Uganda. "They depend on you," he said. "I have to do everything for them."
Resettlement in Utah starts with refugees' names coming across the fax machine at the IRC office.
"Some of them have never seen their name on paper until they come to Immigration," Awad said.
After the refugees are established, they monitor the sometimes rocky road between cultures of their home country and the new one in the West.
A few days ago, Djagba was chasing down a 15-year-old Somali Bantu boy. "He's into the rap music and the bling-bling. I can't find him. He's never home. So, I must find him and talk to him," Djagba said.
On another day, he talks to a teenage Somali Bantu girl who Djagba has learned is pregnant. After asking some questions, Djagba finds out the girl has been raped by an older Somali Bantu man who lives near the girl. He spends a day helping her to fill out a police report and make arrangements for her to meet with medical and law enforcement authorities.
"Life here is very confusing for some of the refugees," he said. "Some of them have a very hard time adjusting to America. This is not Africa. This is not anywhere else in the world. This is America, and the refugees must learn the American ways or they will not make it."
Back in Togo, Djagba's father was the head of the Democratic Party's opposition movement. In 1992, Djagba's father was fatally shot for his politics, he said.
The young man fled to neighboring Burkina Faso, where he earned a bachelor's degree in biochemistry before an increasingly hostile climate drove him to apply for refugee status. He came to Utah in September 1998.
He is married to a young woman from Mali whom he met in Utah. She attends LDS Business College, and he will go back to college when she has finished.
The stories of these successful refugees -- those who now earn their living connecting refugees to their new lives -- all are testimonies to the value of education, Wiyual Jang says.
Essentially reared in a refugee camp in Ethiopia, he came to the United States in 1994. He'd married a woman he met in the camp, and the two now have three children.
Jang says he couldn't have made it on the $4.25 minimum wage he earned back then. He went back to high school and graduated from Horizonte Instruction and Training Center. He earned a nursing assistant certificate, went to South Dakota to earn more money and hone work skills, then came back to Salt Lake City.
Now he works at Catholic Community Services supervising employment for refugees.
"It is very difficult for them to go to work all day and then go to school at night," he said. "But this is what they have to do." E-mail: lucy@desnews.com;
romboy@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

722 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

January 29, 2006 Sunday

Sundance rains praise on the miraculous; 
Sundance 2006 awards granted

BYLINE: Sean P. Means , The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD;  Pg. A1

LENGTH: 550 words

PARK CITY  --  Two movies about miracles  --  a 15-year-old virgin's 
pregnancy and Sudanese refugees making a new life in America  --  were named the big winners with audiences and juries at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival. 
"Quinceanera," a drama about a Mexican-American girl who learns she is pregnant  -- though she has never had sex  --  won both the Audience Award and Grand Jury Prize for American dramatic films.  
"I can't believe this," said co-writer and co-director Wash Westmoreland as he and partner Richard Glatzer accepted the jury prize. "This is a very little film. A year ago it didn't exist. Sundance is like a microscope that can take something very, very small and make it very, very big, and that's what you've done with this. Thank you forever." 
And, after receiving the audience award, Glatzer said, "It's my birthday, and this is the best present ever."   
"God Grew Tired of Us," which follows three " lost boys of Sudan" from their refugee camp through their acclimation to the United States, took both the Audience Award and Grand Jury Prize for American documentaries. 
It is the first time the same films have taken the jury and audience prizes in both dramatic and documentary categories in the same year. 
Director Christopher Quinn thanked the refugees featured in the film, "who are amazing, amazing people who came into my life." 
Quinn also paid tribute to the refugees still living in camps in Africa "who need our help. People are dying by the thousands out there. I hope this film helps shed a light on the true tragedy that is Sudan."  
The documentary "Iraq in Fragments," which profiles three stories of life in post-invasion Iraq, was a multiple award winner. Filmmaker James Longley received honors for directing, cinematography and editing (with co-editors Billy McMillin and Fiona Otway). 
"This is getting embarrassing," Longley said on his third trip to the award stage. Before that, he thanked "all the people I worked with in Iraq, who risked their lives to make this movie." 
Dito Montiel won directing honors for dramatic films, for his semi-autobiographical tale of growing up in Astoria, Queens, "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints." The movie also received a special jury prize for its cast, which includes Robert Downey Jr., Shia LaBeouf, Dianne Wiest and Chazz Palminteri. 
"This is really nuts, man," Montiel said when he accepted the directing award. "I didn't make a list, and if I did name them we'd be here for eternity." 
Hilary Brougher took the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award for "Stephanie Daley," a drama about a psychologist (Tilda Swinton) interviewing a teen girl (Amber Tamblyn) accused of killing her newborn baby in a toilet stall.  
Tom Richmond won the dramatic cinematography prize for director Chris Gorak's paranoid thriller "Right at Your Door." 
Most of the award winners will be screened today, the festival's last day, in Park City. 
For more on the winners, visit www.sltrib.com. 
2006 Sundance award winners
GRAND JURY PRIZE 
Dramatic: "Quinceanera" 
Documentary: "God Grew Tired of Us" 
World Cinema: "13 Tzameti" (France) 
World Cinema Documentary: "In the Pit" (Mexico) 
AUDIENCE AWARD 
Dramatic: "Quinceanera" 
Documentary: "God Grew Tired of Us" 
World Cinema: "No. 2" (New Zealand) 
World Cinema Documentary:  
"De Nadie (No One)" (Mexico) 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wash Westmoreland, right, and Richard Glatzer celebrate after receiving the Grand Jury Prize for "Quincea-era" in Park City on Saturday. 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

724 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

July 19, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Two Years Later: Hatch Reunites with Utah Refugee Scout Troop

LENGTH: 290  words

DATELINE: New York 


Washington: Office of the Senator Orrin Hatch has issued the following news release:  
Two years after helping refugees obtain travel visas to visit their home countries, Senator Hatch reunited with one of Utah's refugee Boy Scout troops, Troop 3253, in his Washington office this morning. The young boys are Karen and Karenni refugees who came to Utah from refugee camps in Thailand after fleeing from Myanmar. The troop is in Washington for the National Scout Jamboree later this week.   

Since Senator Hatch first met the Scouts in July 2015, the program has grown tremendously as refugees become actively involved in scouting in an effort to strengthen ties with the larger Utah community.  
Chairman Nebeker said, "Without Senator Hatch and his team getting us to Japan, we would be nowhere near where we are today. Refugee Scouting is now springing up all over the country thanks to the example set in Utah. Once again, Utah leads the way for a better country, better citizenry and work ethic.  
There are now 250 refugee scouts and there will be 500 by the end of 2017. Michael Nebeker serves as chairman under the auspices of the Boy Scouts of America and the Salt Lake Council, along with six Vice-Chairs. These leaders have recruited 70 men and women adult Scout Leaders to direct the following Troops:  
    Karen & Karenni
     Nepali
     Thai/Laotian
     Swahili-speaking from East Africa
     Vietnamese
     Three Muslim Troops under the auspices of the Islamic Society of Utah, including scouts from Africa and the Middle East.  
These troops have received funding from the LDS Church, The Larry H. Miller Foundation, Utah Senate Appropriations, the Yamagata Foundation, the Eccles Foundation, 100 Women Who Care, and private donors. 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

726 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 27, 2016 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

Friends and Refugees in Need

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 872 words

STOCKHOLM -- Now in his last year in office, President Obama is in legacy mode. He has much to be proud of. But if he doesn't want his achievements muddied by foreign policy, he'll spend his last year redoubling his efforts to contain the Middle East refugee crisis before it goes from a giant humanitarian problem to a giant geostrategic problem that shatters America's most important ally: the European Union.
I know -- putting ''European Union'' into the lead of a column published in America is like a ''Do Not Read'' sign. Maybe I should call it ''Trump's European Union.'' That would go viral. But for the two of you still reading, this is really important.  
  The meltdowns of Syria, Somalia, Eritrea, Mali, Chad and Yemen and our takedowns of Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan -- without proper follow-up on our part, NATO's part or by local elites -- has uncorked the worst refugee crisis since World War II. This tidal wave of migrants and refugees is a human tragedy, and their outflow from Syria and Libya in particular is destabilizing all the neighboring islands of decency: Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon, Kurdistan and Turkey. And now it is eating away at the fabric of the E.U. as well.
  Why should Americans care? Because the E.U. is the United States of Europe -- the world's other great center of democracy and economic opportunity. It has its military shortcomings, but with its wealth and liberal values, the E.U. has become America's primary partner in addressing climate change, managing Iran and Russia and containing disorder in the Middle East and Africa.
  This partnership amplifies American power and, if the E.U. is hobbled or fractured, America will have to do so many more things around the world with much less help.
  At a seminar in Davos, Switzerland, sponsored by the Wilson Center, I interviewed David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee, which oversees relief operations in more than 30 war-affected countries. He made several key points.
  First, one in every 122 people on the planet today is ''fleeing a conflict'' at a time when wars between nations ''are at a record low,'' said Miliband, a former British foreign secretary. Why? Because we now have nearly 30 civil wars underway in weak states that are ''unable to meet the basic needs of citizens or contain civil war.''
  Second, he said, last year the rescue committee assisted 23 million refugees and internally displaced individuals. Some 50 percent of those going to Europe come directly out of Syria and most of the rest come from Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea -- and the international humanitarian relief system ''is now being overwhelmed by the numbers.''
  Last year, within the E.U. bloc there were 56 million truck crossings between countries and every day 1.7 million crossings by people. Preserving that free movement of trucks, trade and people, Miliband added, is a huge ''economic prize,'' but it will not be sustained if E.U. countries feel swamped by refugees who can't be properly registered or absorbed.
  More and more countries are now sealing their borders, and anti-immigrant parties are rising everywhere. Sweden has imposed border controls, and its ultranationalist Sweden Democrats party has grown from the fringe to one of the largest. Many in Germany, Sweden and Austria, which have accepted the lion's share of refugees so far, want to seal off Greece from the E.U.'s passport-free internal travel zone if Greece -- the first port of entry of many refugees -- is unable or unwilling to hold them.
  In the past few days, The Guardian reported, national leaders and top E.U. officials warned ''that Europe's passport-free travel zone could crumble within weeks, risking the dissolution of the union.''
  Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was well intentioned when she opened her country to 1.1 million Arab, African and Afghan migrants last year, but it was also reckless of her to think that so many immigrants, primarily Muslims, could be properly absorbed so quickly into society in German -- a country that took two decades and billions of dollars to absorb East Germans. Merkel's open-door policy drew even more refugees to the E.U., and now that the Germans want to stop the flow, their neighbors won't take them.
  ''This refugee crisis is a real arrow pointed at the heart of the European Union,'' said Miliband. ''There is no solution that confines itself within the borders of Europe.'' As long as there is ''war without law and without end in Syria,'' the refugee flow will continue, with all its destabilizing implications.
  Obama did not cause this Syria problem, and he can't fix it alone -- but it's not going to get fixed without U.S. leadership. I have shared the president's caution about getting involved on the ground in Syria. But I now believe we need to take another look at establishing some kind of U.S./E.U./NATO safe zone inside Syria and Libya to create space for refugees to remain in these countries. It's not a panacea or cost-free, but letting this refugee disaster fracture the E.U. will be a lot more expensive.
  I invite you to follow me on Twitter.
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/27/opinion/friends-and-refugees-in-need.html

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

728 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

June 13, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Rwanda Replies

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 442 words

 
The government of Rwanda has been accused of having sent troops to the eastern parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo to kill innocent Hutu refugees.
The government of Rwanda would like to state the following:
(1) Since 1994 more than 3 million Rwandese refugees, both "old" and "new" have been repatriated. More than 1.4 million of these have come home in the past six months alone. The internal population of Rwanda is now estimated to be 8 million. 
The government and people of Rwanda are struggling with the tasks of national reconciliation, justice, resettlement, social and economic development, peace and stability inside the country as well as in the Great Lakes region.
(2) The international community, having spent more than $ 3 billion in maintaining camps in which perpetrators of genocide trained and armed refugees, has done little or nothing to help Rwandese returnees resettle.
(3) It is time to establish the whole truth, not parts of it, of what has happened in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo since 1994. Only this would stand a chance of being impartial and credible. Therefore, any such investigation should have a broad mandate to include the following:
* The consequences of the French "Operation Torquoise" in 1994.
* The role of nongovernmental organizations, international agencies (including the United Nations), human rights organizations and governments (mainly in Africa, Europe and America).
* The massacres that took place in the eastern areas of the Democratic Republic of Congo, involving mainly the people of Masisi and the Banyamulenge.
* The role of the perpetrators of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda.
* The recent reports of massacres in the refugee camps.
(4) The above investigation should not be a pretext for the international community to run away from the responsibility to bring to justice those who were responsible for genocide in Rwanda. The exceedingly poor performance of the International Tribunal for Rwanda is a stain on the conscience of the international community.
(5) Those who are agitating for linking assistance to Rwanda to its admission of guilt had rather revise their facts. The track record of the government of Rwanda since 1994 is clear, and there is significant reason to be proud of it.
The government of Rwanda challenges this constituency to make public their balance sheet of performance. Above all, the government of Rwanda owes its existence to the people of Rwanda, and as such the talk of pressuring the country into submission is misplaced.
THEOGENE N. RUDASINGWA
Ambassador
Embassy of Rwanda
Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1997 The Washington Post

738 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

December 8, 2013 Sunday

Refugees gather for Christmas party and give thanks

BYLINE: Madeleine Brown Deseret News

LENGTH: 874 words

 HOLLADAY ? On a typical day, Ibrahim Ramazani goes to school, where he was student of the month for October, and plays with his six younger siblings. The top-scorer goes to soccer practice for his club Joga FC and watches Manchester United games. Nine months ago, however, things were a lot different for the 14-year-old from Burundi.  
Ibrahim spent almost half his life living in a refugee camp operated by the government of Malawi after soldiers killed his father in 2006. But Africa wasn't all bad. He had a lot of friends there, and they played soccer and swam every day. However, he said, there was a lot of fighting there. "I think it's better here," Ibrahim said Sunday, "because there's peace here." Ibrahim and his family are just eight of about 250,000 refugees coming to the United States yearly ? a number budgeted by Congress. About 1,200 refugees flee war-torn and violent circumstances to Utah each year. Half of them are given assistance from Catholic Community Services of Utah, which helps them through the refugee settlement process. The rest are helped by the International Rescue Committee. "We try as best we can to have all the refugees have volunteers who will be mentoring them, tutoring them, teaching them, for them to learn the basic life skills in America ... to integrate them in the American culture," said Raul Yumul, the volunteer coordinator for the refugee program at Catholic Community Services. It's normally a 24-month process for them to make it here, and when they eventually do, Catholic Community Services tries to give them the hope and the future that they deserve, he said. Volunteers get an apartment ready for when the refugees arrive, set them up with a case worker, help them find work and teach them how to do everyday tasks like using the bus system. "We meet them at the airport, and we set up the apartment ... so when they come, there's food on the table, clean sheets, clean towels or soap ... and then we're just their advocates," said Chris McIntyre, a volunteer coordinator for one ministry. "It's a lifelong friendship." Both volunteers and refugees gathered at Saint Vincent de Paul Parish for an annual Christmas celebration Sunday afternoon. The volunteers, mostly mentors who help the families transition to life in Utah, enjoyed a meal with the families from places like Somalia, Myanmar, Burundi, Iraq and Bhutan. Ibrahim sat and ate at a round table with his six brothers and sisters and his mother, Cecilia Nahimana. She came to Utah with her seven children, now ages 7 to 14, in March. Going to school helps her children learn English, she said, and she's not far behind. English is now her sixth language, after French, Swahili, Kirundi, Chichewa and Kinyarwanda. Nahimana said she's much happier with her situation now than at the camp and kept a smile on her face, even when she talked about the difficulties she has faced. "The camp, it was difficult. The food is difficult, clothes, water, everything is difficult to provide. ... (I left) because of the fighting in Burundi and then I ran for Tanzania and then I went to Malawai," she said. "(A soldier) killed my husband and now I'm a widow because he killed my husband in Iran." Ubah Abdi, who gave a prayer in Arabic at the celebration, is another single mother who came to Utah. She left Somalia with her four children a year and a half ago. "When we came here it was very hard because the United States and my country are very different. But now I'm learning and I'm doing well," Abdi said. "Before they helped me, Catholic Community Services, but now I can help other refugees." She said her children are doing well, too, and they are all working hard to learn English with the help of people from Catholic Community Services, whom she thanked profusely for helping her learn and grow. "Life was so, so hard in my country," Abdi said. "Now I'm not worrying (for my children's safety) when they go to school. That's why I'm so happy to be in America. We are living in a blessed, blessed country. We are feeling so safe here. I'm so happy about that." She said the culture is much different, even with things like crossing the street or smiling at people, but she likes American culture. Her 11-year-old daughter, Nura Fiidow, said some of the biggest differences are the snow and the fact that people celebrate Christmas. She misses Egypt, but has been able to make a lot of friends. She said she is enjoying learning how to play the violin and appreciates the mentors and volunteers. One such mentor is Michelle Wood, who just went back to school to study public health. A service learning requirement for a refugee migrant issue class spurred her on to volunteer, but she plans on continuing even after the semester is over. Wood said she's gained a lot of perspective from working with a family from Afghanistan. The woman, whose husband was killed by the Taliban, is just a couple years younger than Wood, and their children are similar ages. Wood lit up when she saw the family coming in to the celebration and said she was impressed with their can-do attitudes and gratitude. "They have the real desire to move forward," Wood said, "to succeed and to learn." Email: madbrown@deseretnews.com, Twitter: @madeleine6 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

739 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

January 7, 2010 Thursday

Peter Dyck, Mcc Administrator

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 246  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA 

Peter J. Dyck, author, pastor and Russian refugee worker with Mennonite Central Committee, died of cancer Monday in Scottdale. He was 95. 
Born in Russia, Dyck and his family were rescued during the Russian Revolution by food shipments sent from Mennonites in Canada and the United States, an act of kindness he would not forget.
During World War II, he served with MCC in England. Once the war ended, he moved to the Netherlands to direct a massive relief effort.
In 1946, Dyck set up refugee camps in Germany for thousands of Mennonites who had fled the Soviet Union and later led 5,500 Mennonites by boat to South America, predominantly Paraguay. This experience provided the basis of the book, "Up From the Rubble," that he co-authored with his wife.
Dyck also directed the MCC program in Germany and North Africa.
In the 1970s, Dyck moved into an administrative position with MCC in Akron, where he was responsible for East-West relations in the midst of the Cold War.
Dyck assisted Baptist World Alliance as the organization successfully negotiated with Soviet authorities for permission to make biblical commentaries available. He also served as a Mennonite pastor in Moundridge, Kan., and Scottdale.
A memorial service will be held at 2 p.m. Saturday at Akron Mennonite Church. In lieu of flowers and as a memorial tribute to his life of service, the family asks that contributions be made to the Peter J. Dyck Peace and Justice Scholarship at Goshen College (www.goshen.edu/give).

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter Dyck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.

743 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 15, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
Who Are the Refugees, And Who's Going to Pay?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

IN 1980, when Congress established a comprehensive policy on refugees, there was widespread agreement that the Federal Government should pay for their resettlement because the decision to admit them was made entirely by Federal officials. But that consensus is coming under severe strain as the Federal Government cuts payments for refugees' health, education and welfare expenses.
State officials say they can no longer guarantee that the refugee resettlement program will be as successful as it has been for more than a decade. And it has been successful, producing high school valedictorians, college graduates, taxpayers and hundreds of entrepreneurs in such places as Orange County, Calif., and Arlington County, Va. 
''The majority of refugees currently being resettled have much greater needs than those refugees resettled in the past,'' said Ron Spendal, the Oregon state refugee coordinator, who serves as a spokesman for the National Governors Association on the issue.
''The first wave of refugees who came out of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were the doctors, lawyers, politicians and military leaders,'' Mr. Spendal said. ''They were highly educated, often spoke English and were easily assimilated. The refugees coming out of Southeast Asia now are farmers and fishermen with much less education, few vocational skills and little English.''
Many of the new Soviet Jewish emigres are well-educated by Soviet standards. But that does not mean it is easy for them to find jobs. Soviet doctors, for example, may need to be retrained as X-ray technicians or physical therapists.
Since 1975, about 1.3 million people have entered the United States as refugees, according to the State Department. Of that total, more than 857,000 were from Indochina. In the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, the Bush Administration plans to admit 125,000 refugees, including 50,000 from the Soviet Union, 6,500 from Eastern Europe, 51,500 from East and Southeast Asia, 6,500 from the Near East and South Asia, 3,000 from Africa and 3,500 from Latin America.
The number of refugees is set annually by the President after consultation with Congress. Federal law does not specify the criteria, except to say the President should weigh ''humanitarian concerns'' and ''the national interest.'' Fiscal constraints limit admissions, even as political, ethnic and religious groups lobby for more.
The quotas are completely separate from those for regular immigrants, who get visas on the basis of family ties or job skills. Under the Refugee Act of 1980, a refugee is a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution.''
A principal goal of the law is to help refugees achieve economic self-sufficiency quickly. The Federal Government and the states provide services including medical assistance, job training and instruction in the English language. Most refugees arrive with no financial resources.
 
Waning Federal Funds
From early 1980 through March of 1981, the Federal Government reimbursed the states for all cash and medical assistance given to refugees. Starting in April 1981, the Federal Government limited such payments to a refugee's first 36 months in the United States. In March 1986, Washington cut the reimbursement period to 31 months, and in February 1988 to 24 months.
For the current fiscal year, President Bush proposed to cut the reimbursement period to 15 months. Now Congress is providing money for only 12 months. While planning to admit 125,000 refugees, Mr. Bush acknowledged that his budget would pay for the resettlement of only 84,000, at an average cost of $6,300 each. He did not say where the extra money might be found.
Philip A. Holman, acting director of the Federal Office of Refugee Resettlement, in the Department of Health and Human Services, said the cutbacks did not affect refugees because they were entitled to the same cash and medical benefits. The main difference, he said, is that the states pay a larger share.
Walter Barnes, chief of refugee programs in the California Department of Social Services, said: ''These cuts show the inability or unwillingness of Congress and the Administration to meet the commitments laid out in the Refugee Act of 1980. The constant eating away at resources is, I'm afraid, going to eat away public support for the refugee program.''
 
Destination: California
California took 45 percent of the 76,391 refugees who came to the United States in the fiscal year 1988. New York, with 10 percent, accounted for the next largest share, followed by Florida, Massachusetts and Texas.
Experts warn that the cuts in assistance may increase welfare dependency rates by depriving newcomers of the aid they need to become productive workers. Already the rates are substantial: 52 percent of refugees who have been in the United States for less than two years are receiving some form of cash assistance. (Rates ranged from 14 percent for Poles to 40 percent for Soviet refugees and more than 60 percent for Afghans.) Stephen Moore, an economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said: ''As with immigrants generally, refugees tend to be strong contributors to the U.S. economy. They have low incomes and high rates of dependency in their initial years in this country. But after 5 to 10 years, their earnings increase substantially.''
Tax data show that Indochinese refugees who arrived in 1975 had incomes slightly higher than the national median by 1986, the Department of Health and Human Services said.
In view of such data, some members of Congress say that refugees should be required to pay back, after some years, a portion of the money spent on their resettlement. By taking that step, said Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, ''we could take in more refugees.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicaraguan applicants for refugee status being interviewed by officials in Miami (Matrix/Alex Quesada); graph of U.S. ceilings on refugee admissions by region of origin for fiscal 1990 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

745 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

September 20, 1992, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

BISHOP PLANS ACTIVIST ROLE IN W. AFRICA AS PASTOR, HENNING WORKED FOR RIGHTS

BYLINE: Kathryn Rogers Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 595 words

 
Bishop C. Garnett Henning will take to his new job in Africa the same kind of activism that has made his reputation in St. Louis as an outspoken civil rights advocate.  Starting in November, Henning, 56, will serve an African Methodist Episcopal Church district in West Africa that has been devastated by civil war and poverty. It includes Liberia, Ghana and Nigeria.  Because his new people need more than prayers, Henning says he's unlikely to confine his service to typical ministerial duties.  ''Some would define my role as being there and serving through prayers and teachings,'' Henning says. ''But I'm not sure just performing priestly functions is the best for them.'' The best service, he said, might be developing financial and other resources here in the United States to help the Africans. In other words, Henning appears to want to keep to his longstanding practice of speaking out and acting on behalf of his people.  Henning has been pastor of St. Paul's AME Church in St. Louis for the last 12 years. A few examples of his activities on behalf of human rights include: A fast for the United Farm Workers to support a grape boycott in 1988.  Participation in a protest in 1990 in St. Louis County against racist practices in the construction industry.  A suit he filed in 1989 to block a sales-tax election in the county, saying sales taxes were regressive.  A protest against U.S. involvement in the Persian Gulf War, charging that the war was built on the backs of black Americans. He is founder of the St. Louis Committee for Equal Justice.  ''I have been very, very careful to define my activities outside the church as Christian activism, rather than social activism,'' Henning said in an interview last week. ''There may be social impact, but the motivation is from my faith. I think people in the church are concerned that the church not abandon its role in the prophetic function.'' Henning sees his election as bishop last month as representing ''a heightened expectation of a greater level of activism on the part of the church.'' ''I was more a people's choice,'' he said. ''I was definitely not an official choice.'' Henning ended his pastorate in St. Louis two weeks ago and moved to Los Angeles, where he is now learning about the administrative and ministerial duties of an AME bishop. He will go to Africa alone in November for a few months and then return after the first of the year.  His wife, Ernestine Lee Henning, then will go back with him.  Henning eventually wants to live in Liberia, where, he said, 300 members of the AME Church have been killed in the civil war. Many refugees from the war include AME Liberians who have fled to Ghana and Sierra Leone, also in Henning's new district.  St. Paul AME Church has had a ministry to Africa for some time, having ''adopted'' several African churches and families. The church also has contributed to the Richard Allen School For Girls in Sierre Leone, Henning said.  Henning says he wants ''an indigenous relationship'' with the people in his new district. ''I'm not a bishop who serves from an official position,'' he said. ''I want to know enough to empathize.'' He said he also hoped to expand the church and ''claim others for the faith.'' Henning isn't worried about danger from the war, he said. ''I expect that as an American, I would be given some warning if needed,'' he said.  The Hennings have two daughters, Helaine Aleece Henning of St. Louis and Carma Garnette Henning of Los Angeles. Their son, C. Garnett Henning Jr., was killed in a car accident in 1989.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of Bishop C. Garnett Henning ... ''Motivation is from my faith''

Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

746 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

May 1, 2018 Tuesday  
The New York Times on the Web

A Refugee Caravan is Hoping for Asylum in the U.S. How Are These Cases Decided?

BYLINE: By MIRIAM JORDAN; Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1780 words

Russian ballet dancers, Cuban baseball players and Chinese political dissidents. These are the kind of people fleeing persecution in their homelands who typically won asylum in the United States over the years.
In many cases, they were in the country for a theatrical performance, a conference or a sports tournament, then sought refuge. Think Martina Navratilova, the Czech tennis player, who defected during the 1975 U.S. Open. 
  Over the past five years, though, the number of asylum applications has skyrocketed. Civil wars in Africa, gang violence in Central America and government crackdowns in China have contributed to a backlog of hundreds of thousands of cases and processing times of up to six years. This presents a range of challenges to U.S. authorities, who are required under international law to give all of the cases careful consideration.
  This week, a caravan of 150 to 200 migrants, mainly from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, is waiting at the Mexican border in Tijuana to claim asylum, hoping to win permission to stay in the United States. But President Trump has urged his administration to redouble its efforts to enforce border laws, referring to the caravan over the weekend as ''that mess,'' and declaring, ''We have the worst laws anywhere in the world, we don't have borders.'' 
  Here's a look at how we got here, and what America's legal obligations are.
  What is the legal backdrop?
  The international agreement to protect asylum seekers emerged after the horrific events of World War II. The United Nations signed the refugee convention in 1951, which the United States ratified and incorporated into law in 1980.
  The goal is to provide a safe haven for those who can prove they are fleeing persecution in their homeland.
  What's the difference between a refugee and an asylum-seeker?
  There are two ways people can win protection and the right to live permanently in the United States. In both cases they must prove the same well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group.
  People who apply and are selected overseas eventually enter the United States as refugees.
  Many of them, hundreds of thousands, remain parked in camps as the refugee application process unfolds, typically over several years. That process involves several interviews with United Nations and American officials. The United States also conducts several layers of security screening.
  People already on United States soil apply for asylum.
  Alexander Godunov, a principal dancer with the renowned Bolshoi Ballet, was granted asylum in the United States in 1979. He was the first of several dancers to defect from the Bolshoi during that year's tour in the United States. He requested asylum in New York City and received it immediately. Ms. Navratilova received asylum in October 1975, a month after filing for it.
  During the 1980s, civil war in El Salvador displaced several hundred thousand people. Tens of thousands flocked to the United States and applied for political asylum.
  Nowadays, the process of applying for asylum often takes years to complete, from start to finish. It involves interviews with United States immigration officials and often with immigration judges.
  Whether people entered the country legally or not, they are eligible to apply for asylum.
  The surge
  The world is suffering the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are now a staggering number of refugees, asylum-seekers and displaced people -- about 50 million.
  Violence around the globe is pushing desperate people to seek safety across international borders. People from the Middle East and Africa are taking rickety boats and making treacherous treks to reach Europe. They are less likely to show up at the southwest border of the United States than people from Latin America who are, relatively speaking, nearby and can come over land.
  In recent years, violence in Central America -- it has some of the highest murder rates in the world -- has prompted tens of thousands of people since 2014 to make the perilous journey to the United States.
  The migrants either turn themselves in at the border to American authorities or sneak into the country illegally. Regardless, they then declare that they are seeking asylum.
  Before 2011, only 1 percent of all arriving foreigners requested asylum. Today, one out of 10 apply, according to government officials.
  The caravan
  Jeff Sessions, the United States Attorney General, called the caravan now awaiting processing at the San Ysidro port of entry a ''deliberate attempt to undermine our laws and overwhelm our system.''
  ''There is no right to demand entry without justification,'' he said, adding that he would deploy prosecutors to handle cases.
  Indeed, there are signs that the administration is seeking to disqualify certain applicants, such as victims of domestic violence, who have sometimes won asylum. Recently, Mr. Sessions suggested they should not be eligible.
  Yet the law does require authorities to accept and consider their petitions.
  Once they are processed at the port of entry, they are likely to be transferred to a detention facility where they must pass the first step in the asylum process, a ''credible-fear'' interview with an officer of the United States Immigration and Citizenship Services.
  The number of credible-fear interviews conducted by the federal agency has soared from 5,000 in 2007 to 80,000 last year.
  More than three quarters of those interviewed pass that screening and are referred to an immigration judge for hearings that may span months or longer. (Those who fail the interview can be deported immediately.)
  Asylum applicants awaiting a hearing before a judge either remain in detention or are released wearing a tracking device, such as an ankle monitor, with a date to appear in court.
  Many Central Americans stay with friends and relatives who already live in the United States. Once 180 days have passed after filing of their application, they are eligible to work in the United States. Their children attend public schools.
  Because some migrants in the past have skipped their court hearings, Mr. Trump has criticized the practice of releasing migrants, describing it as ''catch and release.'' In recent months, his administration has ordered border officers to, when possible, keep these migrants in detention, rather than release them.
  ''While these asylum seekers are, on paper, eligible for consideration for release on parole, in reality ICE holds them in detention for long periods of time,'' said Eleanor Acer, director of refugee protection for Human Rights First.
  United States officials say the administration is trying to figure out how to deal with the surge in asylum applications in a manner that is consistent with its international obligations.
  Part of the problem is that immigration courts are clogged, and not just with asylum cases.
  At of the end of March, there were 692,298 cases in the backlog, according to Syracuse University's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, which tracks the trends. The average wait time for current pending cases was 718 days, or nearly two years.
  Are their claims legitimate?
  Central Americans who apply for asylum often have been threatened with death or suffered attacks at the hands of gangs. Often mothers flee to protect their children from recruitment.
  ''We have seen firsthand the extraordinarily violent conditions in the Northern Triangle of Central America that forces families and children to flee their homes in search of urgently needed safety in the U.S.,'' said Jennifer Sime, senior vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue Committee.
  ''Those who qualify and are fleeing violence, who have no other route to protection, should be granted safety and asylum,'' she said.
  Immigrant advocates say their circumstances are akin to those faced by people escaping war in Syria or Somalia. However, it is more difficult for Central Americans to win their cases.
  ''A huge percentage of these people get deported,'' said Marty Rosenbluth, an immigration attorney. ''It's a really difficult struggle to win asylum.''
  Mr. Rosenbluth said that all of his asylum cases based on gang violence have failed because his clients could not establish that they fit into a social group suffering particular persecution to qualify.
  In some cases, judges have found that applicants fabricated or exaggerated their claims, though that is not usually the case.
  Immigration court records show that more asylum cases were denied over the previous five years than have been granted. In fiscal year 2016, 62 percent of asylum cases were denied, compared with 44.5 percent five years earlier. Among Mexicans and Central Americans, the approval rate is substantially lower.
  Are some people just looking for a better life?
  Simply wanting a better life does not meet the international criteria to qualify for asylum. But there are people who apply anyway because it gives them some benefits, albeit temporarily, even if they ultimately lose their case.
  Since the election of Mr. Trump, undocumented immigrants who have lived in the country for many years and fear deportation have been applying for asylum, knowing that they are unlikely to win, but hoping to remain in the country legally for a time.
  While their application crawls through the courts, they can obtain work permits and driver's licenses.
  The administration, which has taken a hard-line on immigration, has said that it is seeking to expedite asylum cases and crack down on abuse.
  ''There is a significant increase in terms of individuals seeking asylum,'' said Jennifer Higgins, an associate director at United States Immigration and Citizenship Services who handles refugee and asylum issues. ''Our goal is to make sure we have a fair and efficient asylum system. Right now we have individuals exploiting it. That means legitimate applicants will suffer.''
  The government has also said that it will prosecute those who break immigration law.
  In the case of the caravan, critics say that it would be a violation of international law to conduct speedy hearings for the caravan members at the expense of a full hearing of their claims.
  ''The Trump administration has made clear that asylum seekers associated with the caravan will be subjected to detention, criminal prosecutions, and rushed proceedings, in essence punishing them for seeking refugee protection,'' said Ms. Acer.
  But Ms. Higgins said officials are assigning staff and officers to help house and process all those admitted for hearings, wherever they end up.

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/30/us/migrant-caravan-asylum.html

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company

748 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

November 8, 2018 Thursday  
First Edition

First hijab-wearing Muslim elected to House

BYLINE: Siobh\xE1n O'Grady The Washington Post

SECTION: CANADA / WORLD; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 448 words

Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s. 
He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State militant group.)
Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota, where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out. And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.
Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her victory speech.
Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in history to be elected legislator in the United States.
Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of the immigration system," Abdi said.
Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather at local caucuses.
In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State or were caught conspiring to do so.
But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.
"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really positive."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

752 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 11, 2015 Friday  
Late Edition - Final

Partisan Tussle Keeps Top U.S. Aid Job Vacant

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 876 words

WASHINGTON --  As the international community confronts a refugee crisis, the nominee to head the American agency responsible for overseas humanitarian issues is stalled in the Senate, leaving the Obama administration with a critical vacancy as it grapples with how to assist those displaced by conflict in the Middle East and Africa.
The nominee, Gayle Smith, a National Security Council official picked by President Obama in April to direct the United States Agency for International Development, remains tied up in a partisan Senate fight over nominations despite bipartisan backing for her confirmation.  
  Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, announced this summer that he would object to considering any nominees for State Department posts because of his opposition to the nuclear deal with Iran, complicating efforts to move ahead quickly with floor votes on the president's picks for international posts. A spokesman for Mr. Cruz said Thursday that those objections still stood.
  Hoping to get Ms. Smith installed to provide expertise and leadership on refugee matters, the White House joined Senate Democrats this week to push for accelerated consideration of her nomination. Ms. Smith is a veteran on international aid issues known for her work in Africa.
  ''By blocking Ms. Smith and other important foreign policy nominations, Senator Cruz and his Republican colleagues are shutting down America's leadership abroad while the refugee crisis rages on,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said Thursday in a statement. He called on Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and majority leader, to ''stop playing political games with critical nominees and schedule a vote to confirm Ms. Smith without further delay.''
  The White House on Wednesday also urged a vote on Ms. Smith. ''There's nobody more qualified than Gayle to lead this agency, and they are at the center of spreading relief around the world,'' a spokesman, Eric Schultz, said. ''And particularly in light of this ongoing Syrian refugee crisis in Europe, if Congress is looking to play a constructive role in making sure the United States effort remains unhampered, that's a good way to do it.''
  Congressional officials said they knew of no direct opposition to Ms. Smith other than from Mr. Cruz. The White House had hoped for a vote on her confirmation before the Senate left town in August, and Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, called Mr. Cruz to ask him to drop his objections. But there has been no new movement.
  A spokesman for Mr. McConnell, who would need to bring the nomination to the floor, said there was no time frame for scheduling the vote.
  Administration officials said that filling the job was crucial because the United States is the leading provider of international aid and because the agency, with its $20 billion budget, is the best conduit for getting assistance to refugees quickly. Having a director in place also helps significantly in negotiations with foreign nations, they said.
  The agency is not involved in resettling refugees in the United States, but congressional Republicans have emphasized this week that they want to address the Syrian refugee crisis at its source, a role U.S.A.I.D. would assist in.
  Ms. Smith, who spent 20 years in Africa, is well-known in development circles and, during the Clinton administration, worked for the agency she will lead if approved by the Senate.
  Her extensive experience was seen as an asset, especially because, with Mr. Obama leaving office in January 2017, she would have limited time in the job. She also drew endorsements from Republicans such as former Senators Bill Frist of Tennessee and Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, although some critics complained that she had been too willing to work with authoritarian governments in Africa.
  Her confirmation hearing in mid-June was relatively uneventful, and Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, noted that she had ''been involved in these kinds of issues for a long, long time.''
  ''I'm glad the executive branch has nominated someone who has the kind of experience you have,'' he told her.
  The first problems surfaced when Republicans expressed concerns over Ms. Smith's view of how the administration interprets prohibitions against using foreign aid for abortion-related services, causing a temporary delay in her approval by the committee. White House officials intervened and addressed the question to the apparent satisfaction of Republicans.
  The committee approved her on a voice vote on July 29 with no objections heard, according to committee staff members. She then joined an assortment of nominees whose confirmations have been slowed by Mr. Cruz.
  In his July 16 letter, Mr. Cruz, who is a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, said he intended to block new funding for the State Department and all nominees for top jobs unless the Obama administration stopped the United Nations Security Council from taking action on the Iran deal before Congress did. The Security Council approved it a few days later. 
  On Thursday, Senate Democrats blocked a final vote on a resolution of disapproval, ensuring the deal will take effect.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/11/world/partisan-tussle-keeps-top-us-aid-job-vacant.html

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gayle Smith, the nominee to lead the United States Agency for International Development. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)       

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

754 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 8, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Cairo and Refugees' Rights

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 395 words

 
FROM CAIRO comes another warning that the United States is departing a long way from its historic principles in the Caribbean these days. When it uses its Navy and Coast Guard to intercept desperate Cubans and Haitians fleeing from repressive governments, it is violating their rights to asylum, as they have been repeatedly expressed in international statements -- and as they are about to be reaffirmed by the United Nations' International Conference on Population and Development.
While the Cairo conference is predictably entangled in a vehement and important dispute over birth control and abortion, that's only a small part of the program that will emerge from it. The conference will have a lot to say about development, and that includes political rights. It intends to issue a final statement that -- in addition to the much-disputed language about reproductive health care and family planning, and the declarations on environmentally sound development and the rest -- will also note people's right to escape from cruel and unjust governments. 
The sentence in the proposed draft says: "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution." That language is taken from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Cairo draft goes on to reaffirm the responsibilities of all countries with regard to refugees, as described in the Geneva Convention.
The United States, like many other countries, found it easier to support this kind of language during the Cold War, when it was a taunt to the communist governments that kept their people penned up at gunpoint. Now, in a massive irony, one of the last surviving communist regimes is no longer forcing its people to stay at home, and the United States is anxiously protesting. It claims that the refugees are not actually fleeing persecution, but that assertion grows thinner as conditions in both Cuba and Haiti continue to deteriorate.
The Cairo conference's interests reach well beyond population policy. This conference is essentially about human rights, and its declaration on refugees is entirely fitting. Its statement of principles ought to make Americans think again about a Caribbean policy that uses embargoes to make life intolerable in two countries with bad governments, and then uses its sea power to intercept the resulting flow of refugees.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

757 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 16, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
The Fear Of Refugees

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

Three years after World War II, most governments of the world had realized that the issues of refugees and asylum were critical to the safety of nations, the purposes of the war and to what had come to be called human rights.
In Europe were camps still filled with persons "displaced" by German devastation or fear of falling into the hands of the Soviet Army. In Asia millions of Hindus and Muslims were killing and being killed crossing through India and Pakistan, sliced apart by partition. 
 On Dec. 10, 1948, the 56 members of the U.N. met in Flushing, Queens, shivering in a mangy former skating rink while the organization hunted frantically for a permanent American headquarters.
In those days, presidents and kings picked important fruit to represent them at the U.N. General Assembly. Secretary of State George Marshall headed the U.S. delegation; near him was John Foster Dulles. The delegate who spoke to the issue was Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Stalin sent Andrei Y. Vyshinsky, his personal people-scythe. Jawaharlal Nehru sent his sister, Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, graceful as bamboo, twice as strong.
The document before them was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All who voted for it said that to violate it would forever be like violating the U.N. charter.
After Article 13 was passed -- declaring everyone's right to leave his country at will -- Article 14 was approved:
"Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution."
The article excepted those who committed non-political crimes. For the overall declaration all members voted aye except eight abstainers -- the Soviet bloc and South Africa.
For the U.S. it was not a problem. Separated from refugees by oceans and disinterest, Washington scanned the lists, reaching in for a few with world-class physics achievements.
Later, U.S. administrations did show attention, political and compassionate. They gave asylum to Soviet Jews, other Soviet dissidents and some allies from South Vietnam.
But asylum was still something remote. We never really understood that most asylum-seekers could not show up equipped with passports, visas, or affidavits by police back home that said yes, they were indeed persecuting the refugees.
Annoying, paperless people like that still arrive from far away. Inscrutable Chinese prefer sickening for months, even dying, in filthy cargo boats to staying home having fun in the new Chinese Communist wonderland. Instead of using them as TV commercials for America, we slam them into jail, long and tight.
And now, drenched, starving Caribbean refugees impolitely try to leap into our own sunny neighborhoods -- right where we once loved to conga around carrying signs saying: "Love you, Latin neighbor."
Fidel Castro taught us that over there is now over here. America stood straight: Cubans who could get here were taken in. Look around: Cuban refugees, like so many others, not only got jobs but created others.
But now there is a growing American antagonism toward immigrants, including refugees: hordes of them will take our jobs. Refugees, of specified colors, always are counted by the horde, sometimes the wave.
President Clinton played into that. He is no xenophobe or racist. But he has a problem about refugees, as about some other human rights matters: constancy deficiency.
This trait made for the weird performance in the Caribbean. When Mr. Castro tested him by letting Cubans set out in rafts, Mr. Clinton "forced" Mr. Castro to keep them home -- thus giving Fidel a terrific chuckle and simultaneously tearing up Articles 13 and 14.
On Haitian refugees, one day Mr. Clinton said let them in, the next sent orders to pick them up, send them back, or to Panama, or Guantanamo, anywhere, just away.
If Mr. Clinton had remained constant on refugees, the Haitian "generals" might have believed long ago that when he said something he meant that specific something. And with a better Clinton constancy record more Americans might understand that he has a good case for invasion as a last resort.
But no protests grip America about Washington's strange fear and minginess toward boat people. Articles 13 and 14 are replaced by that grand old slogan: Pull up the gangplank, Jack, I'm aboard. Is that the signal flag the President wants America to fly on his tour?

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

762 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

May 5, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 624 words

 
 
NORTH AMERICA
 
MEXICO
 
Operative in drug mob is arrested, police say
Dozens of police and soldiers arrested a man described as the second in command of the violent Arellano-Felix drug mob after a shootout in Baja California, prosecutors said Thursday.
The arrest Wednesday of Ismael Higuera Guerrero marks the beginning of the end for the Tijuana-based drug gang, said Mexico's top anti-drug prosecutor, Mariano Herran Salvatti.
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration called the arrest "a major victory for both Mexican and U.S. law enforcement" and called Higuera Guerrero "the most visible member" of the gang, after brothers Ramon and Benjamin Arellano Felix dropped out of sight to avoid arrest. 
 
AFRICA
 
BURUNDI
 
Rebels kill 15 in raid at night, officials say
Burundian rebels believed to operate from refugee camps in neighboring Tanzania have killed 15 people in a nighttime raid near a frontier town, authorities said Thursday.
In the attack Tuesday on Kinyinya, the Hutu rebels also wounded an undetermined number of people and burned several houses, said Gabriel Gunungu, the governor of southern Makamba province.
The motivation for the raid on Kinyinya, 68 miles southeast of the capital Bujumbura, was not known, but the rebels often carry out reprisals against Hutu civilians suspected of providing food or information to government forces.
 
ALGERIA
 
Security forces battle insurgents, paper says
Security forces battled insurgents along Algeria's border with Morocco this week, killing seven people and injuring four, a national newspaper reported Thursday.
The security forces launched a large-scale operation Tuesday near the border town of Maghnia, where rebels were hiding, La Tribune reported. Officers closed in on a group of about 50 rebels, killing five rebels and capturing one.
In addition, two security agents were killed and four were wounded by a mine that exploded during the operation. Moroccan forces on the other side of the border seemed to be working with the Algerians to root out the rebels, which have spread terror among the region's residents, the paper said.
 
ASIA
 
SRI LANKA
 
Nation resumes relations with Israel after 30 years
Sri Lanka resumed diplomatic relations with Israel after 30 years on Thursday, a move that could help the island nation acquire arms for its war against separatist rebels.
The resumption of ties went into effect immediately, a Foreign Ministry statement said. In Tel Aviv, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy welcomed the announcement and said a delegation of Sri Lankan officials would travel to Israel to discuss the renewed relations.
State-run media said it appeared Colombo wants to buy weapons from Israel, a major arms producer and exporter. The Sri Lankan army is in dire need of weapons to contain the Tamil Tiger rebels, who are fighting to establish a separate homeland. Sri Lanka severed diplomatic ties in 1970 after its Muslim population objected to Israel's refusal to vacate certain occupied Arab territories.
 
EUROPE
 
FRANCE
 
Police question 10 over 2 McDonald's bombings
French police have detained a total of 10 people for questioning in connection with the bombings last month of two McDonald's restaurants in Brittany that left one person dead, judicial sources said Thursday.
Officials took a person in for questioning Wednesday near the town of Fougeres, the sources said. Those questioned include two Basques and eight suspected Breton separatists.
Small groups of Breton separatists are seeking autonomy for the coastal region in northwestern France, which has maintained a strong cultural identity reflecting the Bretons' Celtic origins.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

765 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

May 28, 2010 Friday

Together again: Six Somali refugee children finally come home to Utah

BYLINE: By Julia Lyon The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 1169 words

Five years after painfully leaving his children behind in Kenya, believing they would soon follow him to America, refugee Yusuf Shaali sat at the Salt Lake City International Airport and learned their plane was late. Six of his children were traveling more than 9,000 miles for a much-belated reunion that had required lawyers and DNA samples, patience and faith.
Not every family is so fortunate. In 2008, the United States froze its family reunification program for refugees amid allegations of fraud, particularly from Africa, the source of nearly all requests to join relatives in America.
By 11 p.m. Thursday night, Shaali was anxious. He had never expected to live so long in Utah without his children crowding the house. 
--
'You're not living.'  Nearly two decades ago, during Somalia's civil war, Shaali's growing family would lie awake at night waiting for raiders to smash the door in with a gun. The rice, corn, sugar and salt were in as much demand as the chairs. "They took everything, down to a glass," he recalled through an interpreter.
Marauders twice cut a watch off Shaali's wrist. They put a gun to his head and demanded money even when he had nothing left.
How many times? He can't count. Temporary nomads, they traveled from village to village by boat on the Indian Ocean: always running. "You're not living," recalled his eldest daughter, Fatima Mustafa.
One night she fled with her sister Maryan, and, in the chaos, was separated from her parents for several years. The family managed to reunite with the girls in Kenya, where Shaali decided to move because their country had grown too dangerous. By then, two of his sons had been shot and killed while trying to escape Somalia by boat.
In Kenya, they were so poor sometimes the family woke up without food in the house. Hoping to start over in America, the family began to arrive like links in a chain. In Utah they were joining hundreds of other Somali refugees, the state's largest refugee resettlement group over the past decade. More than 1,400 Somalis have resettled here since 2000.
First in 2000 came Fatima's husband, Said Mohamed. Three years later, Fatima arrived with her three boys and petitioned for her parents and siblings to follow. In 2005, Shaali interviewed with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Confusion over his three marriages and an error in his children's names led officials to offer only him and his current wife the chance to come to Utah.
They balked, but were persuaded the separation from the 10 living children from two marriages would be short.
--
Still waiting  On Thursday, the day the family's prayers were answered, Fatima stood in the kitchen, preparing a celebratory feast. For the past six days, she and her mother, Halima Hassan, had worked steadily, mixing and baking a dish per day. Fatima dropped a triangle of dough into boiling vegetable oil and waited for the sambusa, a pastry stuffed with carrots, potatoes and onions, to cook.
She had collapsed in exhaustion the evening before after several excited, sleepless nights. A 3 a.m. inventory shift at Walmart, where she stacks fruit and vegetables in the produce department, contributed to her fatigue.
As she cooked, her father taught Swahili at a community center nearby, awaiting the children's 11:06 p.m. arrival time.
More than once, this day had seemed impossible. Staff at Catholic Community Services of Utah, which helps resettle refugees, helped the parents apply for the children a few months after they arrived in Salt Lake City. Federal officials asked for more evidence and the case inched forward. Nearly a year later, nine of the children were interviewed at the U.S. embassy in Nairobi. One daughter had died of malaria while waiting.
More questions arose about inconsistencies in the children's stories regarding mosques and madrasas, or schools. More than two years passed.
"It was heartbreaking," said Alyssa Williams, an immigration attorney at CCS. "We were put in the unenviable position of having to explain to a mom and dad the bureaucracy that was keeping a family separated."
While the paperwork stalled, two children drowned. And another, an older son, died in his sleep.
Shaali agreed to DNA testing, thinking it would jump start the case. A testing kit was sent by Federal Express to Kenya, where the children's cheeks were swabbed. The samples were returned to the United States, leaving Shaali with hundreds of dollars in bills CCS donors helped him pay.
Years ago, family reunifications made up 20 to 30 percent of the refugees who came to Utah each year through CCS, estimated Aden Batar, refugee resettlement director. That number has dropped to about 5 percent or less.
"We have thousands and thousands of families [in the U.S.] who are here and are waiting to hear when the family reunification program will reopen," he said.
The program, which had been able to confirm a biological link to claimed relatives in fewer than 20 percent of cases, remains under review by federal officials.
--
Arrival  Though they had an uncle nearby, the surviving six children -- now ranging from age 10 to 22 -- primarily lived on their own in the house they once shared with their parents. The family in Utah sent money to support them. When a relative married last summer, the parents and Fatima traveled back to Africa for the event. But they had to leave the children behind once again.
Shaali wanted them home, with the chance to go to school in America. In Kenya, "if you don't have the money to pay the fee, the kids get nothing," the father said.
Finally, in a single phone call, everything changed. Science had proven this family's connections were real.
More than 30 family and friends stood in the arrival hall at the Salt Lake City airport Thursday night. The women's heads were wrapped in a rainbow of scarlet and periwinkle cloth. Playful cousins and brothers rode the escalator while mothers hovered.
Suddenly, 10-year-old Rahma Mustafa sprinted down the airport hall, a streak of electric purple, her arms spread like wings aimed toward her father. Grief and joy was in their embrace.
The five other children --Mustafa, Maryan, Abdulahi, Abukar and Farhiya -- poured out behind her as the family swirled. No one held up balloons or signs to proclaim the gravity of the event. Few pictures were taken. They were ready to go home. Together.
As Shaali and his youngest daughter walked to the parking lot under a full moon, she stayed close, her eyes large, her hand finally in his.
jlyon@sltrib.com Alt Heads:
Together again: Six Somali refugee children finally come home to Utah What is a refugee?
Unlike any other immigrant, a refugee is brought to this country by the U.S. State Department after being identified as someone fleeing his or her country due to persecution, or a well-founded fear of persecution, on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.
The U.S. will resettle as many as 80,000 refugees in America this fiscal year. More than 1,000 will be sent to Utah.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: After five years, knowing that his children were finally in Utah was a joyous occasion for Somali refugee Yusuf Shaali, left, at Salt Lake City International Airport Thursday night. His youngest daughter, Rahma Mustafa, is in purple. His son Abukar Mustafa, center, embraces a well-wisher. To his right are siblings Abdulahi Mustafa and Maryan Mustafa, who have also just arrived.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

766 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

January 9, 2015 Friday

Carnage in France and the immigration dilemma

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 643 words


HIGHLIGHT: Immigration

Western values such as freedom of speech and freedom of the press were brutally challenged in the terrorist attack that took 12 lives in the offices of a French satirical newspaper.  
This massacre can only widen the growing and dangerous gap between Europeans and the thousands of refugees fleeing the political, military and economic crises in their homelands  - and underscores the complex challenges immigration can pose to all nations, including the United States.
In Europe, there's an undeclared war going on.  To the extent it is cultural, on one side are those to whom these Western values are central to their lives; the other side consists of newcomers who have little experience with such personal freedoms. 
The presence of these refugees, and the prospect of many more seeking safety, has engendered bitter resentments.
In fact, Europe - and especially Germany - has a far bigger immigration problem than the one that has caused so much debate among America's political leaders.   
Americans of a certain age may still remember  the heart-rending photographs of frightened Europeans fleeing the advancing German forces in the early days of World War II.  That's when Europeans themselves were the refugees.   
Today, German Chancellor Angela Merkel finds herself facing a refugee problem of starkly different origins but one that nevertheless is painfully reminiscent of those ugly days of her nation's history.
Some Germans accuse the refugees of taking jobs from the native population and - no surprise - of diluting Germany's religious values by introducing Muslim customs and beliefs. 
There have been sizable demonstrations against the refugees, particularly in Dresden and Berlin, and to her credit Merkel has been bluntly critical of them.
Some, perhaps even most, Germans are sensitive to any suggestion their country has callously forgotten the hideous pains of religious persecution inflicted on minorities when the Nazis were in charge.
But as the killings in Paris remind us, the present refugee problem is by no means confined to Germany. 
Consider Italy's situation: Recently, shameless smugglers have taken to loading decrepit cargo ships with refugees from Syria's civil war and from the instability of several North African countries. The smugglers collect their fares, set the ships on a course to Italy and then abandon the refugees at sea.  
Fortunately, Italy has been able to rescue these drifting freighters and save thousands, of lives.
Meanwhile, in the United Kingdom, a relatively new, out-of-the-mainstream right-wing anti-immigration political party has captured two seats in Parliament, although a new forecast predicts that the Conservative Party, led by Prime Minister David Cameron, will prevail in May's general election.
So far in the United States there is no political party formed solely to influence our country's immigration policies, and even those who promote the concept of immigration reform can't agree on what should be done.
The debate in this country, although sometimes heated and even ugly, is mild and respectable compared to that in Europe.  
Immigrants' beliefs and practices always should be respected, but it is not being xenophobic for the United States and other nations to expect its newcomers to also respect Western  values.
The carnage in France is a case of zealots having no regard for the practices of their host nation and illustrates why vigilance is essential.
But it is also important to remember that the fanatics are the exception.
The killers who slaughtered the French journalists remind us that some immigrants do pose a threat, and nations have a responsibility to secure their borders and monitor suspicious individuals. But these crazed murderers should not make us forget most immigrants, regardless of faith or native land,  are,  like the rest of us, simply trying to build a better life.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

767 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The International Herald Tribune

June 4, 2012 Monday

Refugees left adrift

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 329 words

ABSTRACT
A new report from a United Nations agency raises concerns that the displacement of families is on the rise. 

FULL TEXT
Around the world, some 42.5 million vulnerable people were forcibly out of their homes and on the move in 2011, according to the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. There are growing concerns that those numbers will get even worse in the face of armed conflicts and political violence that are increasingly exacerbated by climate change, population growth, rising food prices, natural disasters and struggles for scarce resources. 
According to Antnio Guterres, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, Africa and Asia are the most vulnerable regions. But new crises are appearing unpredictably - in the past year, thousands have been driven from their homes in Syria, Sudan, Mali, Yemen and Cte D'Ivoire - and will continue to grow.
Since 2005, the agency's caseload has expanded - from about 24 million, mostly internally displaced persons and refugees, to roughly 37 million at the end of 2010.
Today's environment is also more chaotic. Instead of negotiating with governments for humanitarian access, the agency often must deal with multiple actors, including warlords and rebels and breakaway regions, even less subject to international pressure, law or shaming. The risk for aid workers and the displaced has increased.
There is also a crisis of political will. The international community, preoccupied with financial and domestic crises, has been less willing to help - whether with money or diplomacy or offers of asylum.  There are no easy answers, but certain strategies stand out. In 2010, 94 percent of all resettled refugees went to just four countries: Australia, Canada, Sweden and the United States, which takes more than any other country. Surely there are scores of others that can also open their doors.  As ever, the best solution is for the world to do a better job of pre-empting conflicts in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

769 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

May 24, 2017 Wednesday  
First Edition

Hamilton's long history of welcoming immigrants and refugees

SECTION: FOC; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 374 words

Hamilton has long been one of Canada's top destinations for people coming from somewhere else - by their own choice as immigrants, or out of necessity as refugees. 
Nearly half of Hamilton residents 65 years of age and older were born outside Canada, a testament to the city's legacy as a major industrial employer during the 1950s, '60s and '70s.
During the 1800s, immigrants to Hamilton came predominantly from Ireland, Scotland and England.
The overwhelming numbers of refugees now passing through Buffalo's Vive centre to Canada has been likened to a modern-day Underground Railroad.
Back in the mid-1800s, Hamilton was an important stop on the original Underground Railroad for blacks escaping from slavery in the United States.
Hundreds of black people settled in Hamilton during that time, including a thriving community on Concession Street on the Mountain that was dubbed Little Africa.
In the early part of the 20th century, the main sources of immigrants were Italy, Poland and Hungary.
After the end of the Second World War, there was a massive influx of immigrants from Italy and Portugal.
In the past half century, refugees have been a large proportion of the city's newcomers.
One study showed that as much as one-third of all Hamilton residents born outside the country entered Canada as refugees, the highest such proportion in Canada.
During the 1970s, the principal source of refugees was Vietnam. More recently, Hamilton's refugees have come from Myanmar, Somalia, Kosovo, Colombia, Iraq, Honduras, El Salvador and Afghanistan.
From late 2015 to early 2017, Hamilton also became home for nearly 1,500 refugees from Syria.
The author
Spectator investigative reporter Steve Buist is the creator of The Spectator's highly acclaimed Code Red project, which has examined issues of income inequality and health in Hamilton. He has won three National Newspaper Awards, been named Canada's investigative journalist of the year three times and Ontario's journalist of the year five times.
The series
Saturday
Refugees massing at the U.S. border
Tuesday
Validating claims at the Peace Bridge Newcomer Centre
Wednesday
Finding home in Canada
This series was done in partnership with
The Buffalo News.
To view their reporting on the topic, go to:
buffalonews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

772 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

October 16, 1990, Tuesday, Final Edition

Bush Approves Modest Rise In Immigration

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 126 words

President Bush yesterday authorized the admission to the United States of up to 131,000 refugees in the next 12 months, an increase of 6,000 over last year.
The government will pay the travel costs for all but 10,000 of the refugees, defined as fleeing persecution on religious, ethnic or other human rights grounds. Private sources fund the rest. Most would be from the Soviet Union, with an allocation of 50,000 people, and Southeast Asia, whose allocation is 52,000.
The total from Eastern Europe was down about 1,500, to 5,000, administration officials said, because democratic reforms have reduced the number seeking to emigrate. Other allocations were 6,000 for the Middle East and South Asia; 3,100 for Latin America and 4,900 for Africa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

Copyright 1990 The Washington Post

776 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

May 29, 2003 Thursday St. Charles Five Star Lift Edition
Correction Appended

PERSECUTED BANTUS FROM SOMALIA WILL SETTLE IN ST. LOUIS;
THE REFUGEES HAVE BEEN AN UNDERCLASS IN THEIR AFRICAN HOMELAND

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1106 words

The first of nearly 12,000 Somali Bantus are leaving Africa on the latest leg of a harsh, historic journey that will eventually lead to the resettlement of possibly more than 200 of the refugees in St. Louis.
For many of these Bantus, their arrival in the United States ends more than a decade in barren refugee camps in Kenya. Before that, the Bantu people in Somalia endured two centuries of slavery and oppression.
"These folks are survivors," said Joel Frushone, Africa policy analyst for the U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group. "They're industrious and hard-working folks, and given the opportunity in America, they'll do well." 
The term bantu describes a large group of black Africans in the southern half of the continent sharing related languages, including Swahili and Zulu.
Not since the resettlement here of rural Laotians and Cambodians in the early 1980s has a large refugee group less exposed to Western ways arrived in St. Louis, say officials of the International Institute in St. Louis, the local organization sponsoring the newcomers.
"They'll know about the light switch, but they may not know about the light bill," said Suzanne LeLaurin of the Institute.
The group said it expects to resettle 51 Bantus here by Sept. 30 and possibly 200 more in the following two years. The first seven families, consisting of 14 adults and 31 children, are likely to arrive in June or July.
The story of the Bantu people in Somalia is particularly harsh and sad, according to published histories and interviews with refugee workers.
In the 19th century, Arab slave traders seized Bantus from their ancestral homelands in Mozambique and Tanzania and sold many to plantation owners in Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf countries, including Somalia.
Even though emancipated by the Italian colonial government in the early 1900s, some Bantus remained in virtual slavery in Somalia until the 1930s. Others were treated as second-class citizens, discouraged from sending their children to school, owning land or political representation.
Even after emancipation, the Italians forced most Bantus to abandon their own farms and work as laborers on more than 100 plantations owned by the colonial government.
The Bantu people fared better under British occupation during and after World War II but saw a return of discrimination once the country became independent in 1960. Some Bantus established farms or moved to larger cities to find work.
From the late 1970s until the early 1980s, the Somali government forcibly conscripted Bantus to serve in its war with Ethiopia.
When Somalia disintegrated into a war among rival clans in the early 1990s, the Bantu people became a target for attacks, rapes and killings. They joined the exodus of tens of thousands to neighboring Kenya.
But even in the refugee camps, Bantus from Somalia reported being treated "as serfs by their neighbors," according to a report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
They refused to return to Somalia.
For the last dozen years, they have languished in mud homes and under tarp-covered branches in Kenya's arid high desert while nations argued over their fate, said Frushone, who visited the camps in May 2001.
In 1999, the United States agreed to accept the Bantu refugees, but delays and then security concerns following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, delayed their departure again and again.
Almost all refugees are overwhelmed by their initial experiences in the United States. Most cannot read, write or speak English, yet still must quickly adapt in an alien culture.
That cultural chasm is far wider for many of the Bantu people who will be settled in about 50 American cities.
Most are rural farmers, farm laborers or construction workers with no formal education, according to a profile of the Bantu people developed by the Cultural Orientation Resource Center, a U.S. State Department-funded program that provides information to refugee professionals.
Prior to fleeing from Somalia, many knew little of modern conveniences such as electricity or plumbing, had never seen a city, climbed stairs, ridden in a car or flown in an aircraft.
They practice traditional beliefs in medicine including the use of ritual ceremonies to cast off illness and evil spells.
Like all refugees, the Bantus undergo cultural orientation classes to prepare them for their new home before departing Kenya. They receive extensive training in housing, health, education and work. They practice in model kitchens and bathrooms, learn about hot and cold water and household safety.
They're also told they must give up the practices of multiple wives and female circumcision practiced by many Bantus and other Somali groups.
Not every community in the United States is welcoming the Bantus. In Holyoke, Mass., the City Council last year voted to oppose the resettlement of Bantus in their economically depressed community. The council said it could not afford to house, educate and provide services to the several hundred Bantus expected there.
In St. Louis, Institute officials plan to offer more help than usual to the Bantus. They are increasing the amount of time social workers will spend with the Bantu families during their first hours in St. Louis and planning daily visits by volunteers for at least the first week following their arrival.
Much of that time will be spent reinforcing lessons about life in America and expounding on what they've already learned about modern conveniences.
As much as practical survival skills, Institute officials also will be concentrating on providing the Bantus with a sense of connectedness.
In Somalia, the Bantu people maintain a strong sense of family and community. Families tend to be large with four to eight children. Extended families lived in closely knit villages where members rely on each other for support.
"Their way of taking care of themselves is to take care of one another in a way that Americans don't," LeLaurin said.
With no established families or relatives in the United States, officials worry about quickly developing support networks for the Bantu people. The State Department is hoping to keep extended families together as much as possible.
"Even if everybody in an extended family comes to St. Louis, they're not going to be in the same three-block radius," LeLaurin said. "The ease with which they can connect to one another is not going to be as easy. They're going to have to re-create how they stay physically and emotionally connected to one another on a day-to-day basis. That's going to be a real challenge for us."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321


CORRECTION: 
CORRECTION PUBLISHED Friday, May 30, 2003: Somalia is located along the Indian Ocean. This story incorrectly identified the body of water.

Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

780 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Manitoba premier seeks co-ordination with feds to deal with refugee surge

SECTION: Pg. B4

LENGTH: 446 words

WINNIPEG ? The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the United States suggest the issue is not going away, says Manitoba's premier. 
"With the United States approach, and the United States new administration's approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday.
"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the federal government co-operatively address, and I have a call lined up later this week with other premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in respect of where we go from here."
Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be one-by-one and not a conference call.
The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.
The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada. If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.
Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get their refugee claim heard.
The reeve of Emerson-Franklin, Greg Janzen, said Tuesday the idea would increase safety for his community's residents and for the refugees, who have been making long crossings on foot in the dead of winter.
"I would like to see something changed and get some order to this chaos that's going on," Janzen said.
"Let them walk up to the port of entry. Will that bring more people? Yes. But at least it will be in an organized manner."
Pallister was non-committal on the issue. He said there are arguments for and against changing the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement.
Pallister also would not specify what he is seeking from the federal government. He said he is putting those details in a letter to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
"I think we have to have the dialogue (first) and we should endeavour to do that co-operatively with the federal government." !@COPYRIGHT= 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

783 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

October 1, 1998, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1241 words

 
 
Oil spill drifts south along California coast
A 2,300-gallon oil spill that had threatened one of the largest West Coast breeding sites for marine life outside Alaska was moving south along the coast Wednesday. The Coast Guard resumed the cleanup effort after about 200 gallons of the oil slick had been sucked up Tuesday at the site 10 miles off San Francisco, said Dana Michaels, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and Game. The spill, reported Monday by a passing ship, was initially between San Francisco and the Farallon Islands, a collection of barren rocks 27 miles off the coast that are home to thousands of birds and sea lions. But by Wednesday, the oil had drifted about 20 miles south, off the coast of Half Moon Bay. The spill occurred at the end of the breeding season when hundreds of thousands of birds gather in large flocks to teach newborns how to feed themselves.
 
Federal worker linked to radicals enters guilty plea 
A U.S. Fish and Wildlife officer who provided paramilitary training to Islamic radicals linked to the World Trade Center bombing and other terrorist plots has pleaded guilty to federal charges. Kelvin E. Smith, 43, entered a conditional guilty plea Tuesday in Scranton, Pa., to lying to the FBI and hiding evidence by dumping semiautomatic rifles in the Delaware River. The guns have never been found. Defense attorney Joshua Lock said Smith entered the plea on the condition that he could appeal a judge's ruling that prevented Smith from arguing that he lied out of fear of retribution from the terrorists. The judge said Smith could have gotten fellow enforcement officers to protect him and his family. Under federal guidelines, Smith probably faces less than two years in prison at sentencing Jan. 18. FBI investigators were led to Smith's farm while tracing the movements of more than a half-dozen would-be terrorists who trained at the farm and its firing range in 1993.
 
President lowers number of entry slots for refugees
President Bill Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000 refugees during the fiscal year that begins today, down from 83,000 the year before. That restored the number to the level of the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 1997 - the lowest figure in a decade. Admissions are based on country-by-country allocations made each year by the State Department. Applicants must prove a "well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, membership in a particular social group or political opinion" to be admitted. This year, Clinton reduced the entry levels for European refugees by 3,000 and for Latin American refugees by 1,000. His order allowed 5,000 more entries from Africa.
 
Jeb Bush leads Florida gubernatorial race, poll says
Republican candidate Jeb Bush maintains a comfortable lead over his Democratic opponent in the Florida gubernatorial race, according to a poll published Wednesday. Bush, the son of former President George Bush, led Democratic Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay by 52 percent to 37 percent in the latest poll by Mason-Dixon Political/Media Research Inc. The general election is Nov. 3. The margin was almost identical to Bush's 51 percent to 35 percent lead over MacKay in a late August Mason-Dixon poll. Eleven percent of the respondents were undecided. The telephone poll of 815 registered voters was conducted Sept. 22-24 and had an error margin of 3.5 percentage points. The same survey showed Sen. Bob Graham also maintaining his firm lead over Republican challenger Charlie Crist, a former state senator from St. Petersburg. Graham, a former Democratic governor seeking his third Senate term, was favored by 59 percent of the respondents, versus 30 percent for Crist. Eleven percent were undecided.
 
Clinton earmarks money for bombing suspects' trial
President Bill Clinton set aside nearly $ 8 million Wednesday to support the establishment of a court in the Netherlands to try two Libyan suspects in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. Clinton directed Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to transfer $ 7.9 million under the authority of the Foreign Assistance Act. Libya has accepted a proposal from the United States and Britain to try the suspects in the Netherlands by Scottish judges under Scottish law but is arguing about specifics. Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi wants details of the proceedings and the treatment the suspects would receive once they are in Dutch custody, as well as assurances that the suspects will have the right of appeal. Britain and the United States have rejected the Libyan demands for guarantees before the suspects are turned over.
 
2 teen-agers plead guilty in Michigan sex scandal
Two more young men accused of having sex with underage girls in a scandal in the wealthy Detroit suburb of Grosse Pointe Woods pleaded guilty to lesser charges Wednesday. Daniel Raymond, 19, and his cousin, James Raymond, 19, pleaded guilty to contributing to the delinquency of a minor. Three 14-year-old girls told authorities that the Raymonds and two other teen-agers gave them alcohol and had sex with them last winter. All four young men were charged with statutory rape, punishable by 15 years in prison. The girls came forward after the Grosse Pointe North High School yearbook was published with a picture of 18-year-old Daniel Granger apparently exposing himself. Granger, the Class of 1998 president, pleaded guilty two weeks ago to the same charge. He and the Raymonds could get up to six months in jail. The fourth defendant, Daniel Cooper, 18, will accept the same deal next week, his lawyer said.
 
11 charged after mob threatens mixed-race couple
Eleven members of a mob in York, Neb., that marched with baseball bats to the home of a mixed-race couple were charged Wednesday with disorderly conduct. Prosecutors filed criminal mischief charges against three others. Shouting racial slurs, about 30 young white men with bats and carrying a Confederate flag broke car windows and attacked the home of a white woman and a black man on Sept. 17. Police dispersed the mob. Police said the attack took place after the woman said that a man who had been a guest had stolen money from the home. Jason Negley, 18, was charged with taking $ 60 to $ 80 in cash and video games.
 
U.S. assails Cuba's treatment of four dissidents
The State Department sharply criticized Cuba's decision to charge four of the country's best-known dissidents with sedition. According to attorneys in Havana, the government is seeking a a six-year prison sentence for Vladimiro Roca and five-year terms for Rene Gomez Manzano, Felix Bonne and Marta Beatriz Roque. They were arrested in July 1997 and were formally charged Thursday. State Department spokesman James Foley said Wednesday the only crime of the four "was to speak the truth about the repression of freedom in Cuba, to criticize the government's failed economic policies and to call for peaceful, democratic change." Foley said the four have been held in cells with common criminals and have been denied adequate medical care. The four criticized the Communist Party for not presenting solutions to the country's severe economic problems.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

784 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 24, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Clinton Disputes Allegations Of Inaction;
Vows to Do More

Mary Jordan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A27

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Ark., July 23, 1994

President Clinton deflected criticism that the United States hesitated too long to aid Rwandan refugees, but he also promised today "we are going to do more."
The president said the United States had "provided 40 percent of the total aid to Rwanda to date" and had nothing for which to apologize. Some members of Congress and United Nations Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali have said that U.S. hesitation compounded what Clinton today termed a "horrible humanitarian tragedy in massive proportion." 
On Friday, two months after the Rwandan catastrophe began with intertribal warfare, Clinton committed 4,000 U.S. troops to help in the humanitarian relief effort in Zaire, where Rwandans, mostly members of the Hutu tribe, have fled.
"I think now is the time to concentrate on the people there and what we as Americans, as citizens of the world, can do to keep as many of them alive as possible." When the crisis is past, Clinton said, "there will be plenty of time for rational assessment of whether more could have been done."
An estimated 500,000 Rwandans have been killed in tribal massacres that began hours after the country's president was killed in an April air crash. More than 2 million people fled and are now camped in Rwanda, Zaire and other neighboring nations. A lack of food and clean water at refugee camps has killed thousands more.
"If you look at the record, I think it is very difficult to point the finger at anyone. We have been working on this for two months," Clinton said. "We are doing the best that we can. But we are going to do more."
Clinton spoke as he returned home to attend his high school reunion. When he landed this morning at Hot Springs Memorial Airport, he told reporters, "Now that the war [in Rwanda] was over," the "present winners of that conflict are trying to persuade the Rwandans to return. That is ultimately the answer."
Later today he said: "I think a lot of the African nations are doing the best they can and if they are trying to do something they cannot do, then the rest of us need to help. I think the world is now focused on Rwanda."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

786 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Charleston Gazette-Mail

November 9, 2016, Wednesday

Australia expects to resettle hundreds of refugees

BYLINE: Rod Mcguirk, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 496 words

CANBERRA, Australia - Australia will find another country to resettle hundreds of asylum seekers now held on poor Pacific islands, a minister said Tuesday as his government planned to banish for life refugees who arrive by boat. 
Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declined to identify countries with which Australia is negotiating to accept almost 1,300 asylum seekers from Africa, the Middle East and Asia who are kept at Australia's expense in camps at Nauru and Papua New Guinea.
"We have been in negotiation with third countries for a long period of time and we are going to land a deal, Dutton told reporters, referring to countries that are neither the asylum seekers' homelands nor the country where they are currently kept.
The Australian newspaper reported last week that the United States and Canada could be among the countries that will accept Australia's asylum seekers.
Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in.
Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013.
The government also introduced to Parliament legislation that would ban such refugees from ever visiting Australia as a tourist, to do business or as an Australian's spouse.
"This legislation sends a strong message to people smugglers and those considering traveling illegally to Australia by boat that Australia's borders are now stronger than ever, Dutton told Parliament.
But the center-left opposition Labor Party said it will not support the legislation. Without Labor's backing in the Senate, the conservative government will need to persuade independent and minor-party senators to make the bill law.
"The idea that a citizen of the United States or Canada or New Zealand faces a lifetime ban preventing them from visiting Australia in 30 or 40 years' time is simply unacceptable, Labor leader Bill Shorten said.
Amnesty International, a London-based human rights group, welcomed Labor's stance against "this callous and cruel legislation.
Australia has rejected a New Zealand offer to resettle 150 refugees. One of Australia's reasons is that those refugees could then become New Zealand citizens and be entitled to live in Australia without a visa under the rules of the close bilateral relationship.
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key last week talked down the prospect of a deal that would ban refugees accepted by New Zealand from ever traveling to Australia.
"We're not going to be in the process of creating different classes of New Zealand citizens, Key said.
Sydney's The Daily Telegraph newspaper reported that up to 10 male asylum seekers from Iran and Iraq kept at Papua New Guinea and married Australian women who worked at the immigration camp and had gained Australian spousal visas since 2012.
Dutton said described such marriages as "sham arrangements and said his government "won't tolerate the law being subverted.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers

790 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 24, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

A TIDE OF MISERY;
Horrors at Home Propel Rwandans Across Borders -- and Into a New Catastophe

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A26

LENGTH: 819 words

After months of war and ethnic bloodletting that claimed an estimated half-million lives, Rwandans are now falling victim to deprivation and disease in their country and neighboring African states. The roots of Rwanda's conflict reach far into the past, and the problems that Rwandans face present a bleak future.
Rwanda's Civil War
Rwanda, a country about the size of Maryland, is in east central Africa, bounded by Tanzania, Burundi, Zaire and Uganda. The population at the beginning of 1994 was about 8.2 million. 
Rwanda was ruled from 1973 until April 6 by President Juvenal Habyarimana, whose Revolutionary Movement for National Development was the sole party until 1991.
Habyarimana and the president of neighboring Burundi were killed in an unexplained plane crash April 6. At present, the United States recognizes no government in Rwanda.
Habyarimana was a member of the Hutu tribe.  The Hutus represent about 85 percent of Rwanda's population, but they were dominated for centuries by the minority Tutsi, who account for about 14 percent of the population. Even before Rwanda gained independence from Belgium in 1962, the country was plagued by tribal warfare, and Habyarimana's death touched off new conflicts. Government-trained Hutu militias began mass attacks on Tutsis and on moderate Hutus suspected of cooperating with them.
Then the Tutsi-led Rwandan Patriotic Front -- which first invaded from Ugandan exile in 1990 -- began a new offensive. After two months of fighting, the rebel front captured Kigali, the capital, and on July 19 swore in a provisional government; last week it drove the remnants of the old Hutu-led government and its army out of their last refuge, in the far southeast of the country, and into Zaire. At present, the United States recognizes no government in Rwanda.
The Refugees
The refugees are both Hutus fleeing the rebels and Tutsis who earlier fled from the Hutu militias. According to the U.S. Agency for International Development, there are 2.42 million Rwandan refugees in neighboring countries.  Another 2.5 million are displaced within the country, mostly living in camps in the French-patrolled southwestern quarter of Rwanda.
An estimated 500,000 have been killed since violence flared in April. The largest refugee group is in Zaire: 1.2 million in camps near Goma, 150,000 in Bukavu and 400,000 in Kamanyola. There are 460,000 in Tanzania, 200,000 in Burundi and 10,000 in Uganda, according to AID.
The Relief Effort
Supplies from many countries are being delivered by plane to the airfield at Goma, Zaire, and by truck from the Kenyan cities of Mombasa and Nairobi; Kampala, Uganda; and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. U.S. equipment and medical supplies are being airlifted from Frankfurt, Germany. The United States, which expects to spend up to $ 250 million on the relief effort, has announced plans to upgrade the airport at Entebbe, Uganda, so that it can become a hub for smaller aircraft to fly to airstrips in the region on a round-the-clock basis.
French troops based in Goma are seeking to slow the exodus of refugees and provide protection to Rwandans in the southwest part of their country, and U.S.  officials say 4,000 troops will be sent to the region to assist in the relief operation.
The first priority of the relief mission is to distribute medical supplies and clean water to help control cholera. Twenty million oral rehydration packages were due to be delivered to refugees Friday and Saturday.
The main problems facing the relief effort are poor roads, lack of transportation equipment, lack of lights at airports for night landings and a shortage of relief workers to distribute supplies and care for refugees.  Airports lack forklift equipment for quick unloading. Refugees milling around on airfields make airdrops dangerous. Volcanic rock makes digging of wells and latrines difficult.
The Outlook
Even after the immediate crisis is stabilized and a supply chain for refugees is in place, officials of volunteer relief agencies say the Rwandans will face a potentially greater threat: famine. Food shortages could spread as livestock left behind by fleeing farmers die and crops rot in the fields. Relief officials say it is urgent for Rwanda's new government to make it possible for the refugees to return home as soon as possible.
The new government formed by the rebels, though controlled by Tutsis, includes Hutus in senior positions and has pledged that Hutu refugees will not face retribution if they return home. The former Hutu government has urged refugees in Zaire not to return, however, and in some cases its soldiers have blocked Rwandans seeking to return home from Zaire.
President Clinton said Friday the United States would "support and urge the immediate deployment of a full contingent of United Nations peacekeepers to Rwanda to provide security for the return of the refugees."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, NO ESCAPE FROM SUFFERING: TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RWANDAN REFUGEES PACKED A MAKESHIFT CAMP, APPROXIMATELY SIX MILES NORTH OF THE EASTERN ZAIRIAN BORDER TOWN OF GOMA, LAST WEEK. AFP; MAP, RICHARD FURNO; CHART

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

792 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

October 17, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Our Commitment Is Haiti's Best Hope

Bob Graham

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 960 words

Tomorrow,the Senate will likely begin debate on an amendment to the Department of Defense appropriations bill that would prohibit any further U.S. military involvement in Haiti. To many Americans, horrified by violent television footage both from Somalia and from Haiti, Dole's amendment may seem an attractive one.
In fact, however, ending the U.S. commitment to Haiti would ensure the collapse of the Governors Island accord, destroying Haiti's hopes for democracy and devastating American interests in that region.
The prospect of an economically and politically unstable Haiti would hurt not only the Haitian people but also the United States. Haiti is not Somalia, where our nation's interests are principally humanitarian. The United States has an obvious interest in Haiti, just 800 miles off the East Coast. 
The most immediate and obvious effect of instability in Haiti would be a renewed flow of Haitian refugees into this country. President Clinton, who campaigned criticizing the interdiction of Haitian refugees, has since justified turning them back because of Haiti's substantive moves to restore democracy. But if the Governors Island accord falls apart, the basis for that interdiction would be shattered. How will we justify sending refugees back to a nation plagued by violence and bloodshed, with little hope of a democratic future?
Having served as governor of Florida during the Mariel boat lift, I remember all too well what a mass exodus to the United States can do to our local economies and law-enforcement capabilities. Many cities continue to be challenged by the problems associated with illegal immigration, and the administration has faced strong pressure to tighten immigration laws. But the most effective means of reducing the number of refugees is to promote democracies and help foster stable economies in the Caribbean, throughout Latin America and around the world.
The United States also has a major interest in Haiti because of Haiti's role in the drug trade. Corrupt members of the military have allowed drugs to travel through Haiti, a transshipment point for illegal substances that end up on the streets of America from Florida to California.
By allowing a few thugs to undermine a democratically elected government, the United States would send a dangerous message to the rest of the Western Hemisphere. Since the coup in Haiti, there have been efforts to dislodge democracy in Venezuela, Peru and Guatemala. Abandoning Haiti would send a dangerous message resonating throughout the Caribbean and South American barracks -- that the world commitment to democracy is shallow and impotent.
The use of U.S. troops in a noncombat role is crucial to maintaining our strong interest in Haiti. Reform of the military is the single most important prerequisite for sowing the roots of democracy, and that means separating the police and defense components of the military. Under the Governor's Island agreement and the U.N. resolutions regarding Haiti, training of the police force would be accomplished by French-speaking nations, while the United States would play the lead in retraining the defense force. For training purposes, the presence of the U.S. military, which has a long history of training the Haitian army, is not only reasonable but also necessary to Haiti's stability. The very failure of the Haitian military to live up to its commitment of providing security for the U.S. troops underscores the critical need for military training and reform.
The administration has failed to explain clearly the role of the U.S. military in Haiti. In order to help effect a democratic transition in Haiti, the administration must improve communication within our government, with the United Nations and with the Haitians as well. Many Haitians, who still remember the U.S. Marine occupation of their country from 1915 to 1934, are put off by the thought of American troops in their country, particularly after hearing inaccurate statements that Americans would be roaming their streets with M-16 rifles. We need to make sure they understand the limited noncombat role intended in their country. And we need to keep them informed of U.S. moves in the region. When President Clinton decided to pull out the USS Harlan County, we failed to tell either the United Nations or even Haitian Prime Minister Robert Malval, who has demonstrated a commitment to the vision of democracy and should have been consulted about that decision.
Unlike the small number of thugs whose antics are dominating the evening news, Malval and most of his fellow Haitians are sickened by the brutality of misrule that has plagued Haiti for so many years. Prime Minister Malval and most of his fellow Haitians are courageous and patriotic to undertake national leadership at a time of turmoil and at great personal risk. His nation has indicated its eagerness to live in a democracy by voting Aristide into power in a decisive, free and fair election in 1990. Under the Governors Island accord, those goals seemed within reach.
The violence last week in Port-au-Prince dramatically set back our hopes for implementing the Governors Island agreement. But the majority of Haitians and the international community still agree that this accord is Haiti's best hope for peace.
There are three steps we can take toward helping the Haitians fulfill that hope. Two of them are already underway: the United Nations decision to reimpose the embargo and President Clinton's decision Friday to send six ships to enforce it. The third step is a continued American commitment to the Governors Island accord, which includes providing troops when both sides are ready for a peaceful transition.
The writer is a Democratic senator from Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

793 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 21, 2016 Wednesday  
The New York Times on the Web

Brazil's New President, Michel Temer, Defends Impeachment of Dilma Rousseff

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 600 words

In his first speech before the United Nations General Assembly, Brazil's new president, Michel Temer, defended on Tuesday the contentious impeachment proceedings that ousted his predecessor, Dilma Rousseff, and placed him in power.
''Everything happened with absolute respect for the constitutional order,'' said Mr. Temer, 75, a career politician who recently emerged victorious from a power struggle that consumed the country's political establishment. He called the impeachment process, which Ms. Rousseff claimed was an illegitimate usurpation of power, ''an example for the world.'' 
  Mr. Temer also praised Brazil's diversity in the speech, without touching on the criticism he received for naming an all-white cabinet in a country where more than half the population defines itself as black or mixed-race. He spoke positively about recent political shifts in Latin America, including the thawing of ties between the United States and Cuba and the deal between Colombia's government and the country's largest rebel group to end the longest-running war in the Americas. 
  ''Temer's main objective is to put the impeachment issue behind him and start with a clean slate in the international arena,'' said Geraldo Zahran, a professor of international relations at the Pontifical Catholic University of So Paulo.
  Turning to Brazil's profile on the global stage, which had grown less prominent under Ms. Rousseff, Mr. Temer spoke about Brazil's longstanding efforts to strengthen commercial and diplomatic ties with African countries. He said that he was looking forward to hosting a summit meeting of Portuguese-speaking countries, six of which are African.
  ''Brazil looks to Africa with friendship and respect, with the aim of advancing projects that bring us even closer together,'' Mr. Temer said.
  Mr. Temer also emphasized that Brazil had opened its doors to refugees. His comments came a day after Brazilian human rights groups blasted him for claiming that Brazil has received more than 95,000 refugees when official statistics place the number of refugees in the country at about 8,800.
  Government officials explained that Mr. Temer had included in his figures tens of thousands of Haitians who have made their way to Brazil on humanitarian visas.
  Brazilian analysts noted that Mr. Temer's positions on various international issues, including his support for a two-state solution for the Israel-Palestinian conflict, his condemnation of xenophobic policies and his call to end the United States' trade embargo against Cuba, stand in contrast to views held by conservative politicians like Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee in the United States.
  ''This might shock some on the left in Brazil who consider Temer to be on the extreme right,'' said Guga Chacra, a prominent Brazilian journalist and political commentator based in New York. ''Temer was multicultural and globalist in his U.N. speech, like Obama.''
  Mr. Temer notably did not make anticorruption measures a priority in his speech, despite the huge graft scandals upending Brazil over the last two years. While Mr. Temer is in New York this week, his allies in Congress tried to hold a vote on a bill that would grant amnesty to politicians engulfed in scandals over illegal campaign financing.
  Mr. Temer's administration, which took power in May, has come under fire over testimony and secret recordings that have revealed ambitions to stifle corruption inquiries. Mr. Temer himself has been found guilty of violating campaign finance limits, a conviction that could make him ineligible to run for office for eight years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/21/world/americas/michel-temer-brazil-unga-2016-united-nations.html

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

794 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 19, 2016 Monday

Washington: Babin Slams Administration's Plan to Recklessly Expand Refugee Influx

LENGTH: 399  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the MP Brian Babin has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who is organizing support for a new effort in Congress to put a moratorium on refugees coming from terrorist hotbeds of Syria, the Middle East, and North Africa in the upcoming spending bill, issued the following statement today in response to President Obama's announcement that he plans to raise the number of refugees admitted to the U.S. to 110,000 and bring in a "significantly higher" number of Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year: 


 

 "By doubling down and defying warnings from his own security experts, the President is further jeopardizing the security and well-being of each and every person in the United States. As someone who has been working tirelessly to stop this madness for over a year, I am deeply alarmed and troubled by this latest announcement and the reckless expansion of America's broken U.N.-led refugee resettlement program.

 

 "As the world has changed and our national security threats have grown, it is commonsense to adjust to these evolving threats. It is past due that we reevaluate our refugee program.  We can do humanitarian relief for these folks close to their home and take affirmative steps so that they can return to their homelands.

 

 "As elected officials we have a sworn duty to act in the best interests of the American people - not the United Nations. The upcoming spending bill presents Congress with a new opportunity to reassert its authority over the refugee program and fix this gaping hole in our national security. Since this refugee law was enacted in the 1980s by Senator Ted Kennedy, Congress has gradually ceded its authority to the President, and with national security and billions of dollars in deficit spending on the line, it is time for Congress to take back oversight of this program."

 

 In July 2015, Rep. Babin introduced the Resettlement Accountability National Security Act (H.R. 3314), which is now supported by 85 of his colleagues, to pause the refugee resettlement program until Congress (1) completes a full national security review to make sure terrorists are not being let into the U.S. and (2) gets a full accounting of the costs of the refugee program to federal, state and local taxpayers.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

795 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

April 25, 2007 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

From Africa to America: A Resolute Pilgrim's Progress

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 406 words

''Rosevelt's America,'' the story of an African refugee's progress in the United States, shows up tonight on PBS in the wake of other, more high-profile examples of that genre, including the feature documentary ''God Grew Tired of Us'' and Dave Eggers's fictionalized memoir, ''What Is the What?'' It actually predates them, though, having been shown in theaters in 2005, and it has one significant point in its favor: it's only a half-hour long. 
  The directors, Roger Weisberg and Tod Lending, who have three Oscar nominations for documentaries between them, manage to cram all the essential elements of this type of narrative into that short running time in elegant fashion. Rosevelt Henderson, a target of violence (he is a civil engineer) in a war-torn country (in this case, Liberia), escapes with his two sons to the United States, where he takes jobs he's vastly overqualified for (airport van driver, janitor) while attending computer classes and working to bring over the family members he left behind (wife and baby daughter).
''Rosevelt's America'' is in the inspirational subcategory, so there's never any doubt that we'll be rewarded with this type of documentary's money shot: the tearful airport reunion. And when it comes, you'll cry too.
  The filmmakers don't explain how Mr. Henderson's story was chosen from among the tens of thousands of possibilities, which leaves us to assume that inspiration -- the slow but steady climb toward the American dream -- is the point. Any doubts about that are banished by the ad for the DVD, which has a slightly expanded title: ''Rosevelt's America: A Refugee's Inspiring Journey.''
  Some viewers will feel that while survival is obviously its own reward, there's still something not entirely cheering in the specter of a former civil engineer and an accountant working as a janitor and as a nurse's aide. 
  But in this genre everything's about the next generation. And even though it has been done before, the closing scene of the Hendersons' children in their Sunday best as the reunited family joins a local church is pure uplift. It's easy to forget your quibbles when Rosevelt, speaking of his wife's long-awaited arrival in America, says, ''We got a team now.''  Rosevelt's America On most PBS stations tonight (check local listings).  Produced and directed by Roger Weisberg and Tod Lending; Produced by Public Policy Productions in association with Thirteen/WNET New York.  

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosevelt Henderson with his wife, Frances, and two of their children. (Photo by Public Policy Productions and Thirteen/WNET)                                         

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company

803 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

January 23, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

High court chills hopes of asylum

BYLINE: Tony Mauro; Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 279 words

 Refugees from strife-torn nations can be denied asylum in the U.S. under a Supreme Court ruling Wednesday.
The 6-3 decision gives immigration officials broad discretion to deny refugee status - even to applicants who fled their countries to escape service in guerrilla forces. 
Nearly 100,000 refugee applications may be pending, most from Central America.
Loser in the case: Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias, who left his native Guatemala in 1987 at age 18 after masked gunmen tried to recruit him.
The court said Zacarias' story didn't fit the legal requirement that he show persecution for ''political opinion.''
A refugee applicant must produce ''evidence so compelling that no reasonable factfinder could fail to find the requisite fear of persecution,'' Justice Antonin Scalia wrote.
That high standard is ''fundamentally anti-humanitarian,'' said Arthur Helton of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. ''It will affect ... thousands of people from countries with civil strife - El Salvador, South Africa, Guatemala, Afghanistan, Haiti.''
Washington, D.C., immigration lawyer Michael Maggio said that under the court's standard, ''If you were being forcibly recruited into the Nazi party of Germany before they took power and you refused to attack Jews, you would be refused political asylum.''
The fate of more than 6,000 Haitian refugees detained at a U.S. military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, also was hanging in the balance Wednesday.
Justice Department official Kenneth Starr Wednesday argued before a federal appeals court panel in Atlanta that they ''have no enforceable rights'' to asylum, in part because they never reached the U.S. border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.

804 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

February 24, 2003 Monday  
Final Edition

Waiting for a Ticket to Safety; 
Troubled U.S. Refugee Program Keeps Families Divided

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1336 words

After seven years of fear, loneliness and grief, it had come to this: Ruqia Guleid in her tiny Fairfax living room, on one end of a phone line. Her husband, torn from her by Somalia's civil war, on the other. Found, alive, at last.  
"He was crying. I was crying. Children was crying," recounted the Somali refugee, 62, hugging a gold brocade shawl around her as she described the jubilant call to Africa. Finally, she had assured her husband, their separation was over. "I say, 'Don't worry! You are coming to us.' " 
But three years later, Guleid waits. And waits.  
Guleid's husband is among thousands of people stranded in precarious conditions overseas during a dramatic slowdown in the U.S. refugee program. While U.S. officials predicted that the program would bounce back after a suspension following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, it instead has run into new snags.  
Only about 5,000 refugees have come to the United States in the first four months of this fiscal year, raising doubts about whether the 50,000 goal for the year will be met. Last year, the refugee program admitted less than half of a 70,000 limit, the lowest number in 25 years.  
 "The program has effectively collapsed," said Kathleen Newland, executive director of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington think tank, reflecting a view common among refugee advocates. 
U.S. officials deny that the refugee program is falling apart. They say it has been slowed by extra security checks, especially for men from mostly Muslim or Arab countries. But, they say, they are working to overcome those delays. And terrorism, they note, isn't the only problem. For example, widespread fraud has been uncovered in the refugee-selection process in Africa, prompting added review of those cases.  
"We're fully aware of the human costs of the delays. But we also have to deal with a number of realities that make it tough sledding at times," said a Bush administration official who spoke on the condition of not being identified. "You can't brush aside things like fraud." 
For years, the United States has been a global leader in resettling refugees, accepting hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese anti-communists, Soviet Jews, Iranian Christians, Africans fleeing ethnic strife and others.  
Refugees must prove to a U.S. immigration official abroad that they face persecution at home because of race, religion, political activity or other factors. Even in the best of times, they face bureaucratic hurdles. But now, the process can drag on for years.  
The slowdown is visible not just in distant refugee camps but here in Washington. The International Rescue Committee used to resettle more than 500 refugees a year locally. Just 23 have come in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. At Catholic Charities in Arlington, which usually receives 200 refugees a year, only 13 have arrived so far.  
"It's been a very traumatic experience," said Neal Donahue of Lutheran Social Services in Falls Church. It has received so few refugees -- just two in January -- that it has laid off workers. 
More critically, the slowdown is visible in modest homes like Seble Lemma's in Silver Spring. The Ethiopian native is waiting for a sick mother and five brothers who are half a world away, living in a single room in a house in Kenya. Lemma hasn't seen them for a decade.  
"Every Christmas comes, [I think] maybe this Christmas we'll get together," said the waitress and mother of two, tears welling. She rented an apartment for her relatives nine months ago after hearing that they would soon leave for the United States. But it sits empty. 
The drop in refugees is due in part to security measures adopted after the 2001 attacks. In particular, male refugees from many predominantly Muslim or Arab countries must pass a review conducted by the FBI and CIA known as a Security Advisory Opinion. That review process is already overwhelmed by applicants for tourist, student and immigrant visas.  
Lavinia Limon, executive director of the nonprofit U.S. Committee for Refugees, said she had been told by the State Department, which oversees the refugee program, that no applicants had failed their security review. But the system has operated at a crawl.  
The Bush administration official acknowledged that the security review has had a "significant impact" on refugees. "We are devoting considerable resources to ensuring it doesn't hold up refugee admissions," he said, adding that a breakthrough could come in weeks.  
Security hurdles have been set particularly high for Iraqis. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun rechecking every case, even after the refugee has passed State Department, FBI and CIA background checks. 
Anti-terrorism clearances aren't the only reason for the slowdown.  
The U.S. refugee program is in the midst of changing its focus, from large groups in a few locations -- such as Vietnam and the Soviet Union -- to groups from more than 60 countries. Security threats and civil strife have disrupted plans for U.S. officials to interview refugees at some sites, particularly in Africa.  
And the program suffered a further setback as U.S. officials discovered widespread fraud and misrepresentation in a program allowing close relatives of U.S. residents to apply for refugee status, most of them Africans. The INS is reviewing all "family relationship" cases. 
U.S. officials say they remain committed to the refugee program, although the number of annual admissions has been dropping from a high of 132,000 in 1992. The State Department is trying to identify new groups in Russia, Africa and South America that could be considered eligible and is providing the United Nations with millions of dollars to expand its programs of refugee resettlement. 
But that brings little cheer to families who applied two, three or more years ago for relatives.  
Guleid and her husband have been apart since 1988, when he took her and their three daughters to Cairo to escape growing violence. He then returned to his job in Somalia -- occasionally flying back to visit until his homeland exploded in civil war in 1992. He fled to the countryside, and the couple lost contact. 
Guleid and her daughters arrived in Virginia as refugees in 1998. A year later, the miracle happened: Her husband, Yusuf Ali Hassan, was found in Djibouti.  
On a black-checked couch in her tiny Fairfax apartment, Guleid spreads out her husband's refugee papers, like talismans she hopes will lead him to Virginia. She is regal in a floor-length red dress, plaid head-scarf and shiny gold shawl, and her eyes snap with energy. 
But she is growing increasingly desperate.  
"The main thing is missing. The children [are] without father. The woman is sick," she said, referring to her own rheumatism and high blood pressure. "What's the life?" 
It has been nearly a year since she signed the papers confirming that she was ready to receive her husband. That, she thought, signaled the end of the refugee process. But she recently learned that her husband was awaiting his security clearance, apparently required since Somalia has been linked to terrorism. 
"Wait clearance?" she shrieked. "A 65-year-old man? I'm 62! Is there time to wait?" 
The frustration has compounded the difficulties of adjusting to this new life in the United States. To Guleid, the streets seem sinister. She generally stays inside, paralyzed by the uncertainty over her husband and her family's future.  
"He's worrying alone, 'What can we do?' I'm worrying alone, 'What can we do?' " she said, twirling a finger at her temple.  
The frustration also weighs on Guleid's daughters, who range in age from 19 to 27. Two commute to college, and one works at a bank. In accordance with her Muslim traditions, Guleid prohibits them from going on dates. But there is no father to take the young women to the movies or social events. So they stay home. 
When they cry, Guleid puts on a brave face. "It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter," she consoles them.  
Then she goes into the small kitchen and weeps alone.   

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The Washington Post

805 of 996 DOCUMENTS


US Official News

October 22, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Alexander Leads Congressional Delegation Trip to Examine European Refugee Crisis in Italy, Greece

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: Lahore


 Washington: Office of the Senator Lamar Alexander, U.S Government has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) announced Sunday that he and five other members of Congress just wrapped up a visit to Italy and Greece after receiving a series of in-country briefings on the humanitarian crisis Europe is facing from refugees and migrants from the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa. 


 

  Alexander was joined on the trip by U.S. Sens. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Dan Coats (R-Ind.).

 

 Europe is currently facing the largest influx of refugees and migrants since the end of Word War II. More than 600,000 migrants have come to Europe to this point in 2015, according to the International Organization for Migration, and have been arriving by boat to Italy, and by boat and land in Greece. Migrants are also arriving by land in Hungary and other countries in Eastern Europe.

 

 During their trip, the lawmakers met with U.S. troops, military leaders, political leaders and representatives from non-governmental organizations to review regional issues and the refugee and migrant crisis. In Italy, the lawmakers were briefed by U.S. military officials from the European and African commands on the migrant and refugee crisis and military and diplomatic relations in the region, as well as efforts related to addressing the Ebola crisis, the search for Joseph Kony, and addressing extremist groups operating in Africa such as Boko Haram. In Greece, the lawmakers welcomed the U.S.S. Winston S. Churchill to port and were briefed on efforts to protect and promote U.S. interests in the Mediterranean region.

 

 In addition to visiting with soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines from their respective states, the Members met with Monsignor Florian Kolfhaus, Vatican Director for North America; Paolo Gentiloni, Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs; Nikolaos Pappas, Greece Minister of State; Panos Kammenos, Greece Minister of Defense; representatives of the United Nations High Commission on Refugees and the International Organization for Migration in both countries; and Doctors of the World in Greece.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

806 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 19, 2015 Monday

Washington: Alexander Leads Congressional Delegation Trip to Examine European Refugee Crisis in Italy, Greece

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Senator Lamar Alexander, U.S Government has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) announced Sunday that he and five other members of Congress just wrapped up a visit to Italy and Greece after receiving a series of in-country briefings on the humanitarian crisis Europe is facing from refugees and migrants from the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa. 


 

  Alexander was joined on the trip by U.S. Sens. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Dan Coats (R-Ind.).

 

 Europe is currently facing the largest influx of refugees and migrants since the end of Word War II. More than 600,000 migrants have come to Europe to this point in 2015, according to the International Organization for Migration, and have been arriving by boat to Italy, and by boat and land in Greece. Migrants are also arriving by land in Hungary and other countries in Eastern Europe.

 

 During their trip, the lawmakers met with U.S. troops, military leaders, political leaders and representatives from non-governmental organizations to review regional issues and the refugee and migrant crisis. In Italy, the lawmakers were briefed by U.S. military officials from the European and African commands on the migrant and refugee crisis and military and diplomatic relations in the region, as well as efforts related to addressing the Ebola crisis, the search for Joseph Kony, and addressing extremist groups operating in Africa such as Boko Haram. In Greece, the lawmakers welcomed the U.S.S. Winston S. Churchill to port and were briefed on efforts to protect and promote U.S. interests in the Mediterranean region.

 

 In addition to visiting with soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines from their respective states, the Members met with Monsignor Florian Kolfhaus, Vatican Director for North America; Paolo Gentiloni, Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs; Nikolaos Pappas, Greece Minister of State; Panos Kammenos, Greece Minister of Defense; representatives of the United Nations High Commission on Refugees and the International Organization for Migration in both countries; and Doctors of the World in Greece.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

807 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

July 26, 2007 Thursday

Refugee housing crisis spurs action

BYLINE: Lucinda Dillon Kinkead Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 803 words

   A formidable group of community and business leaders put their heads together Wednesday in an attempt to solve a looming housing crisis slated to displace hundreds of low-income Salt Lake residents -- mostly refugees resettled here from war-torn regions such as Somalia, Sudan and eastern Europe -- by the end of the summer.
Because of escalating rents and lost federal aid, tenants from up to 175 units of an apartment complex known to most as the Hartland, at 1700 South and Redwood Road, face moving elsewhere -- or to the streets -- and away from services on which they rely. Due to expiring leases and other problems, at least six dozen families -- many of them Bantu -- have already moved, and many more at the complex are facing imminent deadlines. 
Wednesday's session at the United Way offices was called to mull alternatives.
A possible answer? Purchasing the complex from its current owners.
"This crisis has touched all walks of life," said Rosemarie Hunter, director of the University Neighborhood Partnership, which has worked closely with residents of the apartment complex. "The fact that so many people came to the table shows the scope of this issue," Hunter said.
Bankers, educators, social workers, community leaders, refugee resettlement experts, University of Utah officials and representatives from the Catholic Diocese and LDS Church all gathered to see what could be done.
"Most everyone in the rooms saw the value in keeping that (property) affordable," said Robert Rendon, senior vice president and director of community reinvestment for Zions Bank.
About 50 concerned people who attended the meeting agreed someone must try to buy back the property, now renamed the Seasons at Pebble Creek, from a San Francisco-based group that recently bought it, raised rents $50 to $200 and is now renewing leases.
The meeting signaled formal efforts to do so, said Bill Crim, director of strategic initiatives and public policy for United Way, which organized the meeting. "This needs urgent attention."
For years, the collection of 300 apartments has been much more than a living space for its residents.
The complex is home to more than 1,000 adults and children from all over the world, including Africa, South America, central and eastern Europe and Mexico, as well as the United States.
More than 75 percent of the residents are non-native English speakers.
Hartland had been a resettlement site for the two primary refugee agencies in Salt Lake City. As a result, some of the units were subsidized for low-income residents.
In March, new owners increased the monthly rent. They also said that Section 8 vouchers, which subsidize rent, would no longer be accepted. After some lobbying by concerned groups, the owners and housing authorities were able to reach an agreement that vouchers from current residents would be accepted. But about 40 percent of residents there also have been supported by a federal rental assistance program that ends in August.
There is no replacement program, so there are no more funds to subsidize low rent for tenants.
Complicating the low-income issue is that many of the refugee residents have a significant learning curve when it comes to Western life. Many have lived in refugee camps for decades, and life skills that Americans take for granted -- technology, language, bill paying and other complications of contemporary living -- can take years for some refugees to learn.
Educators at area schools, social workers and a bevy of community groups came together early to help refugee children and adults with the difficult transitions.
Teams of faculty and students from the U. department of family and consumer studies began working early on with community partners and Hartland residents. They built a financial fitness program through the University Neighborhood Partnership-Hartland Center, an on-site campus where a variety of classes are offered in subjects like homebuyer education, health access, English as a second Language and early childhood programs.
"It's quite a unique situation there," Rendon said. "Those programs really help the families get oriented into our societies. If all those families are dispersed, it's going to be very difficult to rebuild that."
The new owners weren't present at Wednesday's meeting, but Zions Bank officials are in talks with them about buying the property, Rendon said.
Rendon couldn't say what the property is worth, but Salt Lake County property records show it valued at $10 million in 2005, $11.3 million in 2006 and proposed at $16.2 million value for 2007.
Also raised in discussion Wednesday is the sobering fact: This is not an isolated problem. "There are other affordable housing complexes up for sale," Crim said. And the community must find a proactive way to deal with these concerns, he said. E-mail: lucy@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

809 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

November 24, 2013 Sunday

Refugees gather for a feast of food; 
For some, it was their first Thanksgiving in adopted country

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 553 words

During what is widely recognized as America's first Thanksgiving, a group of refugees fleeing from religious persecution in England sat down with their new Native American neighbors to share a feast. 
Saturday, a group of refugees fleeing some of the most oppressive governments around the world, gathered with their new Jacksonville neighbors for what has become our standard Thanksgiving feast: turkey with mashed potatoes and gravy, stuffing, a green bean casserole, a sweet potato casserole and some cranberry sauce. There was also ham and pork and some cranberry sauce. Then some pumpkin pie.
For many of the approximately 90 refugees who came to San Jose Catholic Church for the afternoon meal, Saturday marked their first Thanksgiving dinner.
The refugees had been brought to the Jacksonville by the Refugee Settlement Program of Catholic Charities of the Diocese of St. Augustine.
For David Rojas, his wife, Carmen Gonzalez, and his son David Rojas Jr., Saturday's feast was his second celebration of America's Thanksgiving. The refugees from Venezuela arrived in Jacksonville last Nov. 15 and attended Catholic Charities' Thanksgiving celebration at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church less than two weeks later.
The food was different.
"We don't eat much turkey in Venezuela," Rojas said, adding that eating cranberry sauce for the first time was a novel but pleasant experience.
He said he likes the story of the original Thanksgiving, the tale of the Pilgrims and the Native Americans peacefully sharing a meal together, which he called "a lesson for all of us."
That's why he was back at Catholic Charities' Thanksgiving celebration for a second time, calling it a chance "for people from different countries to meet and share peace."
As the food was being served and eaten, he and his wife sang Venezuelan songs while he played the Venezuelan national instrument, the four-stringed quatro (sometimes spelled cuatro).
For some of the volunteers from San Jose Catholic Church, the work of preparing the feast began at 3 a.m.
That's when Glenn Trcalek and Larry Mendez arrived at the church parking lot where they would grill seven turkeys, eight Boston butts and two hams. The side dishes were put together at various volunteers' homes and brought to the parish hall.
Other members of San Jose Catholic's team of about 20 volunteers spent their morning driving refugee families to the church. Meanwhile, 50 volunteers from Bishop Kenny High School checked arriving refugees into the parish hall and then worked serving food from the buffet line.
"It's an opportunity to help people out and introduce them to an American tradition," said Bishop Kenny junior Louie Walsh.
Chris Wilkey, who organized the San Jose volunteers and drove a couple of refugee families to the lunch, said being involved in the event is very satisfying.
"There is a lot of energy and the people are so thankful," he said. "... This is what we're called to do. They bring Christ to me."
As the lunch began to wind down, a happy Ursula Alonso danced to Rojas' music.
Catholic Charities brought her to the United States from Cuba via Spain in December 1967. Now she's a volunteer mentor for the Resettlement Program. She said Thanksgiving has become a favorite holiday of hers.
"We have a lot to be thankful for," she said.
Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Kelly Jordan For the Times-Union Enjoying their first Thanksgiving in the United States, Mariam Ahmot, 4, (center) and her sisters Hadje, 7, (right) and Nadjima, 12, of South Africa sit down at the table to eat their food. Kelly Jordan For the Times-Union Chan Za Peng, 4, from Burma watches as a traditional Thanksgiving meal is served for his first Thanksgiving since arriving in the United States four months ago. Refugee families enjoyed a traditional Thanksgiving meal at San Jose Catholic Church on Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 The Florida Times-Union

810 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

June 12, 2010 Saturday

Chelmsford pastor hopes to learn from Christians in developing countries

BYLINE: By Debbie Hovanasian, Sun Correspondent

SECTION: RELIGION

LENGTH: 705 words

CHELMSFORD -- For many years, the Rev. David Rinas, pastor of Trinity Lutheran Church in Chelmsford, and his wife, Doreen, have provided temporary shelter to refugees and asylum seekers. Living with the refugees, they found that they had an outlook on life in America that diverged from how Americans see that life. They simply saw things in a different way.
One refugee was hesitant to insult the Rinases, but he was moved to ask why Americans spend so much money on soft coverings for hard floors, only to walk on that soft floor with hard shoes, Rinas said. 
Now Rinas, who recently completed a mission to Honduras and has just begun a three-month sabbatical, aims to put himself in a position similar to the refugees'. Over his sabbatical, he plans to visit developing countries, live among the people, and observe why they do what they do.
More specifically, as the pastor of a vibrant Lutheran congregation, he's interested in learning why Christianity is experiencing significant growth in developing countries, while many churches in America are experiencing declining membership.
"I want to learn why so many Spanish-speaking people have such a deep and profound faith -- to explore another culture by knowing enough of its language to get some real insight," he said.
"What can I learn from them -- especially when they have something that I would like. What will I discover?"
In "The Next Christendom: The Rise of Global Christianity," Pennsylvania State University professor Philip Jenkins shows that Christianity is on the rise in developing countries. His data shows that Ghana has more Presbyterians than Scotland, Nigeria has more Anglicans than Britain and China will soon have more Christians than all but six nations.
Jenkins' statistics further indicate that by 2025, 67 percent of Christians will live in Africa, Latin America or Asia. And by 2050, a third of Latinos and Asians will come from Christian backgrounds.
Rinas, who has traveled on several missions and lived in other parts of the world, has observed firsthand that growth in Christianity -- especially people's willingness to talk about and share their faith.
"Why are they so willing to share their faith?" Rinas asked. "We have plenty of faith here but we are so reluctant to talk about it. In other parts of the world, you can get killed for sharing your faith. People risk their lives to go to church. Here, you can express your faith, but we're more reluctant."
In order to get some of those answers, Rinas is brushing up on his high-school and college-level Spanish by spending an hour a day at his laptop using the Rosetta Stone Spanish-language software program.
His language has improved since his February trip to Honduras, the third poorest country in the world, where he spent a week helping to build an Episcopal Church. During his conversations with the Hondurans, he was "just getting by," he said. Now he's more conversational.
He expects to hone the language even further during his sabbatical on visits to Puerto Rico and Mexico, where he will live for three weeks with a Mexican family in a language-immersion program.
"There's five hours of intensive language training every day," he said.
His drive to immerse himself in the Spanish-speaking, third-world Christian culture, seeking out answers, is not something he can easily explain.
"I just feel called to do this and I don't even know why," he said. "I'm going to go worship in these other places, participate in the worship as best I can, so that I can see how the good news impacts the people."
He's also aware that, much like his mission to Honduras, he will get more from living among people than he will ever give.
"A lot of Americans, we think we are going to these places to offer help," he said. "But this is always mutual. If we miss the aspect of how they can help us, then we really miss the point. You come back changed, and you often ask, why do we have all this stuff?"
In his absence, Trinity will have 13 different preachers over 13 Sundays, seven of whom are lay members of the church. He looks forward to returning to his congregation in September, renewed and refreshed -- and with new insight.
"Faith is always a journey," he said. "I'm looking for new tools for that journey."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

811 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 23, 2015 Monday

Washington: Midshipmen Candidate Takes Oath of Citizenship

LENGTH: 738  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 United States Navy, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:

Midshipman Candidate Diane Muhizi became a U.S. citizen, March 19, during a naturalization ceremony at the U.S. Customs and Immigration Service office in Johnston, R.I.
Muhizi's story of becoming a U.S. citizen has been a difficult journey; a journey that has taken her far from her former life. 
"Everything, good or bad, I go through here in America I consider pure joy, because I have seen what poverty and rock bottom feels like," said Muhizi. "I constantly force myself to never forget where I came from, because without that past I never would have known what happiness feels like. I am glad that I'm not there anymore, but I'm even gladder I was there."
Born in Rwanda, Africa, Muhizi relocated to the United States on Oct. 21, 2009 along with her mother and two brothers. Before then, she spent the first 13 years of her life in a refugee camp in Mozambique.
Today, Muhizi is a high-achieving student at Naval Academy Preparatory School (NAPS), where she currently has a 4.00 GPA and was recently selected to be a platoon commander for the 2nd trimester of the academic year.
"Every year there are 1-2 midshipman candidates who arrive at NAPS needing to complete naturalization prior to reporting to the U.S. Naval Academy," said retired Capt. Mark Donahue, NAPS command services director. "Each story is unique, but Midshipman Candidate Muhizi's story is particularly compelling. Growing up in a refugee camp from the time she was a baby, she has embraced her adversity and it has made her a high achiever."
The ceremony, which swore in 32 new U.S. citizens from 21 different countries, is one Muhizi won't soon forget.
"It feels awesome to be a citizen because that means I can now attend the Academy," said Muhizi. "I feel a little more patriotic than I did before I was a citizen."
Muhizi will attend the U.S. Naval Academy later this year as part of the class of 2019. She credits NAPS for preparing her for this goal.
"NAPS has helped me get more familiar with the military lifestyle, I was blessed with a leadership position as a platoon commander," said Muhizi. "This position helped me become more confident in my leadership abilities and gave me a perspective on how hard peer leadership is."
Advanced Physics Professor John Macaluso said Muhizi's positive approach, dedication and motivation are what make her a top student at NAPS.
"Muhizi is one of the hardest working and most dedicated students in my class. She consistently gives full effort towards every topic, assignment, and discussion," said Macaluso. "She works very well with others and causes those around her to live up to her level of motivation. She's inquisitive, smart and approaches everything with a positive attitude."
"When Muhizi got her paperwork for her interview with the citizenship board, the entire platoon was happy for her," said Chief Aviation Support Equipment Technician (AW) Kathryn Kennon, 1st Company senior enlisted leader. "She brings a smile to others just being in the room because she has a positive outlook on life."
According to Donahue, Muhizi plans to study engineering while at the Naval Academy and possibly join the submarine community after graduation.
"She has all the hallmarks of someone who will make an exceptional officer -- passion for the job; compassion for the people; superb technical knowledge and stamina," said Donahue. "She gets along very well with everyone. Her smile and kind demeanor improve morale whenever she is around."
"Being able to make people like Diane Muhizi U.S. citizens is what has made this country great and is what gives me such great confidence in the future of our nation."
Muhizi credits her mother Basilissa, who survived the genocide in Rwanda, as her inspiration and driving force.
"When it comes to who inspires me, my mother Basilissa is always going to be on top of that list," said Muhizi. "My mother is the kind of person that even after being hit by mountains of trouble, she'll still get back up and pick up where she left off. She's been through the worst of the worst, not mentioning experiencing the genocide itself. Yet she never lost hope, she's always looking for a way to make sure that her children are happy and safe. Her selflessness and caring for others is what I admire."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

815 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 18, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton's New Policy on Haiti Yields Little Progress So Far

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO,   Special to The New York Times 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17

President Clinton's new strategy to restore democracy to Haiti has thus far failed to weaken the ruling military junta, elicit help from other countries in resettling refugees or stem criticism by lawmakers, refugee groups and human rights leaders.
The policy initiative, unveiled by Mr. Clinton nine days ago, included the appointment of a new special envoy, William H. Gray 3d, and the announcement that refugee processing centers would be created on ships and in third countries. A few days before, the United States spearheaded a campaign in the Security Council to impose a near-total trade embargo on Haiti that is due to take effect on Saturday. 
 But the policy has been slow in getting under way, and critics of the Administration have charged that Mr. Clinton was responding to domestic political pressure in changing the Haiti policy and has no comprehensive plan to restore to power Haiti's ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Administration officials stress that it will take some time for the tightened sanctions, which include a ban on noncommercial flights, to be fully carried out and effective.
"The U.N. sanctions that have been adopted are a strong expression of the international community's commitment to restoring democracy," Samuel R. Berger, the deputy national security adviser, said in a telephone interview. "Our envoy, Bill Gray, has hit the ground running. We're moving ahead on changes in our refugee policy as quickly as possible. The President said it would take some weeks. There are no surprises here."
Among the indicators of a less than a smooth start, however, is the fact that Mr. Gray, the new special envoy and the former head of the Congressional Black caucus, has yet to meet Father Aristide or even to talk to him on the telephone, although both men were in South Africa last week for the inauguration of Nelson Mandela.
Mr. Gray said that he first tried to call Father Aristide upon his return. "He was not in when I tried to call him," Mr. Gray said in a telephone interview today. "No one answered the phone over the weekend. It's nothing but a little telephone tag. We're close to having a meeting set up, hopefully by the end of this week. It will be a courtesy call."
Another problem has been the failure of the Clinton Administration to convince any other country to process potential Haitian refugees on their soil or to grant political asylum to more refugees.
President Clinton telephoned Prime Minister John Major of Britain on Monday to ask that the island group of Turks and Caicos, a British dependent territory, be used for processing refugees. Mr. Major replied politely that in principle he would like to help, but made no commitment, senior White House officials said.
Similarly, Madeleine K. Albright, the American representative at the United Nations, asked Canada's Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Ottawa last week whether Canada would be prepared to take more Haitian refugees. "We noted our interest in cooperating, but gave no commitment or immediate answer," a senior Canadian official said of the request.
There have also been problems in enforcing the economic isolation. Despite embarrassing violations of existing sanctions by the Dominican Republic, through which fuel is routinely smuggled across the border into Haiti, the United States has no intention of threatening its Government with economic sanctions or reducing its sugar quota to the United States.
 
Dominican Disdain
 Joaquin Balaguer, who was narrowly leading today in his bid for re-election as the Dominican President, has made no secret of his disdain for Father Aristide and has been criticized by the Clinton Administration for not cooperating with the sanctions against Haiti.
Defending the idea of not confronting the Dominican Republic, Mr. Gray said, "This is not the time to make threats against the Dominican Republic, but the time to work with them to solve some of their problems."
Although Mr. Clinton and his top aides have said publicly that the trade embargo is intended to send a message to Haiti's ruling junta that it must step aside, senior officials in the White House, State Department and Pentagon say in private that they doubt the strategy will work.
Far from quieting Congressional criticism of the Administration's policy, the new initiative has generated more calls for a military invasion of Haiti. Except for English-speaking Caribbean countries and Argentina, however, other governments in the hemisphere have expressed opposition to military action.
France and Canada also said last week they would not support or participate in an American-led invasion.
 
Speculation on Invasion
 But the difficulties with the Administration's policy have fueled speculation both inside and outside the Administration that the United States is moving inexorably to an invasion of Haiti to oust the junta by force.
"There is no hope for Haiti without an immediate military intervention," said Robert I. Rotberg, president of the World Peace Foundation and author of a book on Haitian history. "The policy is one of a big voice without a big stick. Teddy Roosevelt must be turning in his grave."
As for the delays in permitting some Haitian refugees to enter the United States, senior White House officials said that it will take "some weeks" before American immigration authorities can begin shipboard interviews of potential political refugees fleeing Haiti.
Word of the delay was conveyed by senior White House officials to more than 100 representatives of refugee and human rights organizations in a stormy meeting last Friday. Until the new policy is under way, the Coast Guard will continue to send back Haitians caught trying to flee by sea, as it did with 341 Haitians on Monday.
The Administration still has not decided how it will conduct shipboard interviews or whether it will allow Haitians to have legal counsel.
The head of the lobbying group TransAfrica, Randall Robinson, whose hunger strike helped push the Administration into changing its Haiti policy, said that he is organizing scores of lawyers to work on a voluntary basis to help insure that Haitians have private legal counsel.
 
Restrictions on Applications
 For the moment, the Administration will not change the way it allows Haitians to apply for refugee status inside Haiti. Under new restrictions put in place in February, Haitians cannot even gain an interview with an American immigration official until they fill out a written questionnaire and qualify under a specific category. These are the categories:
*Senior or mid-level officials in Father Aristide's ousted government;
*Close associates of Father Aristide;
*Journalists, educators and other political figures who have experienced significant and persistent harassment;
*Unspecified "others" in whom the United States has an interest and who are in immediate danger.
One problem with such restrictive procedures is that applying for asylum inside Haiti is potentially dangerous for the applicant. In Port-au-Prince, for example, the refugee processing center is housed in an open area of the Rex Theater, where applicants can be seen by passers-by.
Mr. Gray stressed that the new Administration policy needed time to work and that other changes might be made along the way.
The person who feels most strongly about not tampering any further with the refugee policy is Secretary of State Warren Christopher, senior Administration officials said.
It was he who argued -- unsuccessfully and without the support of other national security advisers -- in the weeks before the policy shift that the United States should do nothing to change its policy of forcibly repatriating Haitians fleeing by boat. He warned that it would trigger a new flood of refugees, many of whom might die at sea.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

818 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

May 5, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Aristide's Misguided Charge

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 802 words

The Clinton administration's shifting policies toward Haiti deserve most of the criticism they get. But I doubt that racism is part of the problem, as Jean-Bertrand Aristide bitterly alleges. And I doubt that a U.S. invasion to restore Aristide is part of the solution.
Aristide damages his own case -- and devalues the force of honest examination of the race factor in foreign policy -- by mistaking the Clinton team's ineptness for racial prejudice. Racism as a basis for policy is too serious a charge to be treated so lightly. 
The Aristide accusations come as South Africa's elections bury many of the racial myths and antagonisms that shaped apartheid and the outside world's relations with Pretoria. South Africa's future will not be problem- free or prejudice-free. But it will be different, and instructive about race and foreign policy.
The United States was absolutely right to see race as an important factor in shaping its relations with South Africa. The ruling white regime's abuse of that country's non-white majority threatened to inflame black-white relations everywhere. By imposing economic sanctions and applying diplomatic pressure, the United States was defending its interests in that conflict.
South Africa and other cases suggest that American policy often is responsive to the ideal of multiracialism and the concerns of black Americans when racial conflict is the issue abroad. If Belgian colonialists were today slaughtering Rwanda's Tutsis, instead of the Hutus doing the killing, would the White House be free to adopt its current "terribly tragic but not our problem" approach? Again, I express my doubts without having final proof at my fingertips.
In Rwanda, and in Haiti, there is a certain official indifference to the fate of blacks who are not being abused by whites. Aristide seemed to suggest in an April 21 press conference that this constitutes racism. He charged that Clinton's turning away of Haitian refugees fleeing the murderous cruelty of the junta that overthrew Aristide "is a racist policy. It's really a way to say we don't care."
Hypocrisy is a charge that would stick to Clinton on Haiti. He criticized George Bush for turning back Haitian refugees, but now does the same. Cynicism also applies. Clinton's primary concern as a politician has to be the electoral votes of Florida, a state that would be swamped by the refugees.
But if race is a factor in his Haiti policy, it is one that keeps Clinton more involved, and more sympathetic to Aristide, than he would otherwise be. The president seeks to placate the Congressional Black Caucus and the liberal wing of the Democratic Party.
The Clintonesque response to Aristide's April 21 blast was to dispatch key aides to soothe the nettled Haitian leader. I try to imagine past presidents who have had to deal with recalcitrant foreign leaders reacting the same way. But I can't quite see Lyndon Johnson or even George Bush turning the other cheek in public. Clinton continues to feed the hand that bites him, supporting Aristide in rhetoric.
But the Haitian's misguided racism charge makes it even less likely that Aristide's restoration will be the goal of the limited military action and/or covert operations the administration may finally take to punish the junta for defying America and terrorizing its subjects.
Punishing Haiti's thug-rulers, and restoring Clinton's credibility in foreign policy, are different (and more limited) goals than committing the U.S. government to restoring Aristide by military action and thus taking the responsibility for what happens afterward. Aristide says not even he wants an invasion designed to put him back in power.
"He does not want to be Somoza, installed by American bayonets," says one of Clinton's advisers. Nor could Aristide be a strongman a la Nicaragua's Somoza. Whatever the merits of the public debate over his emotional stability, Aristide is clearly not the kind of decisive, commanding figure who could control the forces a direct American intervention would unleash.
Clinton's reputation can ill afford more dithering and reversals on Haiti. He needs to make a hard choice between what seem at this point to be his best options: He can deal with the junta by negotiating free, fair and ironclad elections in the near future to replace Aristide, and take the flak that will bring from the left. Or he can punish the junta by militarily enforcing a leaking embargo, seizing or destroying Haitian military and police assets in Haiti, and let Haitian politics take their own course.
What the president does not have to do is wear the label of racism for making that choice, or doing something in between. Disagreeing with Jean-Bertrand Aristide is not proof of racist intentions. Increasingly it looks like a good course to follow.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

819 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

December 25, 2011 Sunday

HOPE FUND; 
Orphaned himself, but reaching out; 
Native of Tanzania wants to help children of Africa, yet has challenges of his own in U.S.

BYLINE: Amber Batteiger

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 923 words

Although Elias Meshack escaped the day-to-day suffering he endured as an orphaned refugee in Mozambique, he can't forget those he left behind.
That's why today, as a Jacksonville resident, he's adamant about helping other orphans in similar circumstances, even as his family struggles to make ends meet.
"I try to help the orphans because I see how my life was and how I grew up suffering," Meshack said. "I don't want the other orphans to suffer." 
Meshack, 32, was born in the Mishamo refugee settlement in Tanzania. After his father disappeared and his mother died, he wandered from refugee camp to refugee camp until 2001, when he settled into the Maratane Refugee Center in Mozambique for a decade.
While Meshack and his family escaped to the United States in 2010, thousands of refugees remain, including hundreds of orphans. Today the Maratane Refugee Center, built for 5,500 refugees, is housing almost double that.
There are more than 59 million orphaned children in Africa. In Mozambique alone, more than 2.1 million children are orphaned or separated from their families, according to United Nations reports, many of them because of the AIDS epidemic there.
CONCERNS AT HOME
Although Meshack desires to give the orphans as much as he can, his main focus now is on supporting his family.
He works part-time preparing food at Native Sun Natural Foods Market on San Jose Boulevard, making around $1,000 a month. His wife does not work because she stays home to care for their three young children, Esther, 7, Suzana, 9, and a son named after his father born earlier this year.
The family's food stamps were cut when Meshack began to work, but he is applying to receive them again. The family also is behind on their $675 rent.
The family does not have health insurance, a particular issue because Meshack's wife, Salima, is suffering complications from surgery she had 10 years ago in Africa. Because the family cannot afford medical care, she is in constant pain.
Although Meshack said his family's needs come first, more than anything, he wants to go to college. Already speaking seven languages, Meshack takes English and Spanish language classes four nights a week at Florida State College at Jacksonville. Eventually, he wants to study sociology and political science with the goal of helping his homeland.
"There is so much conflict, and I would like to be able to solve the problems between the tribes," he said.
2 BROTHERS
Meshack said he is compelled to help others because of the suffering he endured since birth.
In 1982, when Meshack was 3 years old, Burundi military men knocked on the family's door and seized Meshack's father. To this day, Meshack does not know whether his father is dead or alive.
After his father's disappearance, his mother remarried and in 1989 gave birth to Meshack's half-brother, Jonathan. Three months after Jonathan's birth, their mother died. Meshack became the baby's sole caregiver and they fled the camp.
After wandering for 12 years, the brothers settled in the Maratane camp.
Bahai missionaries helped pay for Meshack to attend primary school and high school, but he didn't have enough money to continue on to college.
Instead he started his own small business selling flowers, beans, shoes and small fish.
WORK WITH ORPHANS
His success in that enterprise brought him to the attention of World Relief, an international relief and development agency, which was also impressed by the time and money he dedicated to taking care of orphans.
The agency asked him to help set up a microfinance program, in which women got small loans and were taught how to use sewing machines, grow vegetables and raise chickens, enabling them to start their own businesses.
Meshack continued to work with orphans, an endeavor through which he met his wife, who was helping take care of the children.
"When I met my wife in the camp, she was suffering," Meshack said. "She said, 'I'm alone, my parents both died.' I told her, 'I'm alone too, we can love each other. We can be together.' "
After years of suffering in the camp, including living through an attempt to murder his family, Meshack decided they had to flee for their safety. Starting in 2003, he tried to gain refugee status, allowing him to come to North America, but it wasn't until 2010 that he finally succeeded in obtaining permission to emigrate to Jacksonville.
"When the plane touched down in the United States, I thanked God," Meshack said. "God is great. My dream is now alive. I need to now help people in Africa."
Meshack said he and his family are very happy here and hope to stay in Jacksonville for as long as they can. Next year he's hoping to sponsor 20 orphans who want to go to school, which would cost about $800.
"I'm crying every day," Meshack said. "What can I do to help them?"
Despite his difficulties, Meshack said he is blessed. He credits his positive outlook on life to his Christian faith, a faith passed down from his parents.
"I am happy because the Bible says don't be sad," Meshack said. "You need to be happy every day. When you get a problem, you need to pray to God. That is why I am always satisfied and smiling every day."
ABOUT THE HOPE FUND
The program: The Hope Fund is an annual holiday giving program in which every cent donated goes directly to Northeast Florida residents in need.
The partners: The Florida Times-Union, The University of North Florida, HandsOn Jacksonville
The mission: Provide basic necessities for area residents experiencing hardships
The participants: About 800 clients
More information: hopefund.org, (904) 359-HOPE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Bob.Mack@jacksonville.com Elias Meshack with his family (from left): Esther, 7, Suzana, 9, wife Salima Feruzi and son Meshack, 7 months.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 The Florida Times-Union

821 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 27, 2014 Saturday

Ellison, Cicilline Applaud White House Extension of Temporary Status for Liberian Refugees

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Office of the House of Representative Keith Ellison, U.S Government has issued the following news release:
Representatives Keith Ellison (D-MN) and David N. Cicilline (D-RI) today welcomed President Obama's decision to extend Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) for Liberians living legally in the United States by 2 years. The current DED protection was set to expire on September 30, 2014, which could have sent thousands of Liberian refugees back to their home country where 3,200 Ebola virus cases have been reported, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).Letter to Pres re Liberian DED.pdf 
"America's Liberian communities make tremendous contributions to our nation. We applaud President Obama's decision to extend Deferred Enforced Departure status for these members of our communities, especially at a time when the Ebola crisis is threatening the health and safety of Liberians and other West African nations. Liberians should not be forced to leave their jobs, creating hardships for themselves, their families and the employers who rely on them," said Ellison and Cicilline. "We will continue working with President Obama and our colleagues in Congress to give Liberian refugees who are playing by the rules a fair shot at permanent residency."
Earlier this week, the lawmakers sent a letter to President Obama calling for the extension of DED status and highlighting the ongoing threat posed by the Ebola virus. In the letter the lawmakers wrote: "The current Ebola crisis has greatly weakened the country's infrastructure and stability, and it would be imprudent to send individuals into this environment and to risk exposing them to this deadly disease." According to the CDC, if the Ebola virus is not contained it could potentially infect 1.4 million people in West Africa by the end of January 2015.
During the early 1990s thousands of Liberians fled a brutal civil war seeking refuge in the United States. Many of these refugees have raised children in American and become integral members of their local communities, contributing to the local economy and culture. Ellison and Cicilline have long championed efforts to prevent the deportation of Liberians living legally in the U.S. Ellison introduced the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act that would allow Liberians who were brought to the United States legally under temporary protection status classification to apply for permanent residency. Cicilline is an original cosponsor of this bill. 
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

823 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

July 22, 2018 Sunday  
Late Edition - Final

How to Make a Life From Scratch

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ALEXANDER; ) was President Barack Obama's inaugural poet in 2009. She is the president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the author of, most recently, ''The Light of the World.&#x201D

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1460 words

A few weeks ago, I attended an Eritrean Orthodox Christian and American Orthodox Jewish wedding in New York. The Eritreans came from all over the globe, where war and conflict had scattered them over the past two generations, and from all over the country.
The Eritrean women came in their traditional white dresses and shawls called netsela; the men were elegant and grave in their dark Western suits. The wine glass was smashed; the Jewish family linked arms and danced in a circle; the Eritreans danced a circle dance called the kuda. The Jewish men hoisted the bride high on a chair; the Eritreans ululated in the temple. 
  It was a complex, beautiful day. Centuries of tradition came together. The bride and groom could meet in America because war had scattered African families as the Holocaust had scattered Jewish families, and all made themselves anew in their new space.
  The huppah is the canopy carried in a Jewish wedding. It symbolizes shelter for the newlyweds. The sides of the huppah are always open, which lets in light and air but also people, so that the home of the newlyweds is shared and the pot of stone soup is shared, invoking the tent where Abraham welcomed visitors and angels. Let your house be wide open, and open on all sides to welcome wayfarers. 
  My side is the Eritrean side, though I am not Eritrean; my late husband was. The bride was the niece who became my daughter when she came to America at 16 to live with us. War made it impossible for her to stay where she was, and her mother said to me, ''She is your daughter now,'' while I was pregnant with what I thought was my first child.
  So life goes on, and families expand, and the blessings and responsibilities of others come your way.
  Critical thinking develops when you go outside of your comfort zone, when you eat a different bread from the one you grew up with. Challah, chapati, hot-water cornbread, pita, injera, baguette -- how wonderful to eat a different bread, a differently spiced meal. How wonderful to sleep next to someone who might be dreaming in a language different from your own.
  Picture this wedding photo: My 10-year-old great-nephew, Maxie, who is Scottish and Eritrean, lives in Aberdeen, Scotland, and traveled to see his auntie get married. In the photograph, he wears a kilt in the plaid of his father's clan, and atop his head is a tartan yarmulke made specially for the occasion for him to wear in the temple. He has the sweetest shy smile you have ever seen, and he is learning to dance an Eritrean dance with the older men in the family.
  This is the beauty of diaspora, of culture crossing, of not knowing what is around the corner, of making life anew and something new after disruption. I think he may be the only Scottish-Eritrean boy with a tartan skullcap in the whole wide world. But surely he is not the last.
  This family is my family because my husband came to the United States in 1981 from Eritrea, a small country in East Africa, after decades of an independence war and a scourge called the Red Terror. He was a refugee, a person who has been forced to leave his country to escape war, persecution or natural disaster.
  What do you picture when you hear the word ''refugee''? What are we being asked to picture as we listen to the constant description of America as an unwelcoming place, a house with doors and windows locked shut?
  Ficre Ghebreyesus, my late husband, the refugee I married. He fled death squads, hid from soldiers when they broke into his home, saw classmates disappeared. This was the norm for every family he knew. At 16, he was sent away by his mother to save his life. He journeyed on foot to Sudan, then Italy, then Germany, and from there, to the United States, eventually landing in New Haven.
  His full name was Ficremariam Ghebreyesus. In Italy he was called Marco. I do not know what he was called in Germany. In the United States he was called Freddy by the owner of the local Chinese herb store, who was named Li-biao and whom most of New Haven called Bill. He was called Fiore by New Haven Italian-Americans, holding on to their own mother tongue in a new space.
  Here is what he did when he came to the United States: He worked, usually three not particularly enjoyable jobs at a time requiring multiple bus trips, long and lonely nights. And then he made friends. And then he became part of his community. And then he built and enriched that community.
  People from our Eritrean family came at different times of conflict. The last wave was after the Ethiopian-Eritrean border war in 1998, when some Eritreans were rounded up from their jobs in Ethiopia and put in jail. That war, which cost tens of thousands of lives, formally ended only this month, closing over a half-century of conflict.
  Ficre considered himself African-American, African, Eritrean, East African, Asmarino, human. He lived in those identities. He had read more books than anyone I knew, spoke eight languages, started a restaurant that fed a community for years and made 882 paintings, some of which will be shown at a one-man show at the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco in September.
  He became a United States citizen, and we went to the ceremony in the New Haven courthouse and I saw, in the world that was there, a premise and promise of America. I thought about the phrase ''radical welcome.''
  Ficre lived with anxiety that never left him -- though he was the most joyful man anyone who knew him ever knew. After the Sept. 11 attacks, when brown people and people with ''unusual'' last names were being rounded up, he would break into an anxious sweat most days, worried that he was no longer secure in what was now his country. That he might be separated from me, and from his beloved boys.
  He once sat on a tree stump in the backyard of our home, so far from where he grew up, and said, ''Baby, it may sound funny, but this feels like Africa to me.''
  One of my sisters-in-law, also a refugee, began a new life from scratch in the United States before her husband and remaining child at home could join her. She left everything material behind in Ethiopia -- home, car, furnishings, jewelry. A few things eventually made their way back to her. She'd get a call to meet a plane at Kennedy Airport and a package of something precious would come: spices, fabric, a packet of documents.
  The best was when her small coffee table came, with compartments for coffee cups, and a small rug made of artificial grass. She did the sacred Eritrean coffee ceremony and for a moment was no longer a refugee but rather a woman performing the rituals she had performed all her life.
  ''I am home now,'' she said, as she poured us cup after cup of coffee. She has since died. It was her daughter who just married.
  For what is the meaning of life, after all, than coffee and tea and talk with loved ones?
  What is home, to a refugee? I never took home for granted. But it never occurred to me that I might not have my home.
  ''I don't want the children to be refugees,'' my husband would say, and we'd share a dark, knowing laugh. ''But I do want them to know what we refugees know: that you can make your life from scratch. I want the children to have the strength and wile of survivors.''
  ''We refugees,'' he said, by which he meant, we refugees who survive.
  Ficre died unexpectedly, a few days after his 50th birthday, from cardiac arrest. We'd thought he was healthy. Several doctors separately said to me they were not surprised to hear he was a refugee. More than one cardiologist told me, the heart is a metaphor and the heart is real. Sustained strain can break the heart. People who walk to freedom often carry that strain for the rest of their lives, invisible, but ever-present.
  Yes, he was mine and now I sing his song. But he was also no different from so many other refugees who have to leave their homes, people with names that some make little effort to pronounce who continue to build America. Nor am I any different from the millions of people who fell in love and made family here.
  Ficre's presence in my life reminds me of the limits and dangers of nationalism everywhere, that families can be torn apart for generations and that in the words of the poet W. H. Auden, ''we must love one another or die.''
  And in the story of Ficre is the lesson that we are impoverished if we remain strangers to one another and that what makes this country unique is that the world is in it.
  Ficre left this earth too early. So it is my job to tell his American story. I offer this story to ask, will we build homes with open sides that welcome wayfarers into our lives?
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. 

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/21/opinion/sunday/how-to-make-a-life-from-scratch.html

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A self-portrait by Ficre Ghebreyesus, the author's late husband. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE ESTATE OF FICRE GHEBREYESUS) (SR5)       

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company

824 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 23, 2015 Wednesday

New Mexico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Santa Fe: University of New Mexico University, The State of New Mexico has issued the following news release:

  

 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in Albuquerque, New Mexico. 


 

 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says, they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to figure out life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees' strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.

 

 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the change students see in themselves.

 

     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it really means to be a refugee.

 

     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say, "Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.

 

     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . . . I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.

 

 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local community centers, bring food and talk about everything.

 

 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of the advocacy," he said.
 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda.

 

 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.

 

     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?' And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)

 

     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner] and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)

 

     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S. cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)       

 

 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way they think about people who live in Albuquerque.

 

 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

  

  

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

825 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

November 5, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

TUTSI REBELS ANNOUNCE CEASE-FIRE IN EAST ZAIRE; HUTU REFUGEES ALLOWED TO RETURN TO HOMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: KIGALI, RWANDA

 
With the international community threatening to intervene, Zairian Tutsi rebels declared a cease-fire Monday in eastern Zaire and agreed to allow aid agencies to try to get Hutu refugees home to Burundi and Rwanda.
Fighting between Tutsi-led rebels and Zairian troops has forced hundreds of thousands of refugees to flee from their U.N. camps, venturing deeper into Zaire and farther from aid workers. Diplomats and aid groups met Monday in two African capitals to discuss what to do next. 
The recent cross-border warfare began three weeks ago, choking off road and air routes for emergency food into the region and pushing aid workers last week to evacuate.
Laurent Kabila, the rebel leader, said his fighters would observe a three-week cease-fire to allow 1.1 million Rwandan and Burundian Hutu refugees to return home.
But the rebels warned that war would resume unless Zaire's army abided by the truce - a tall order for the Kinshasa government, which has vowed to recapture a string of towns and cities.
In Rwanda, reports said that Goma, the capital of eastern Zaire, was quiet after four days of gun and mortar fire.
The Hutu refugees followed their defeated army into exile in July 1994 after Rwanda's former Hutu extremist government slaughtered at least 500, 000 people, mostly Tutsis.
The Hutus have refused to return, fearing reprisals for the genocide. In the last few weeks, rebels have overrun the camps where the Hutus live north and south of Lake Kivu.
French Foreign Minister Herve de Charette urged European nations, the United States, Canada and the Organization of African Unity to meet immediately and "organize the possible means to temporarily secure" eastern Zaire to feed the refugees. Charette did not specify what measures he was suggesting.
The global community swiftly mobilized to try to take advantage of the promised cease-fire.
The U.S. ambassador to Rwanda, Robert Gribbins, endorsed the idea of a humanitarian corridor to return refugees and agreed that no military force was needed.
Regional foreign ministers were meeting Monday in Nairobi to prepare for a summit meeting of east African leaders called by Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi to tackle the crisis.
However, an adviser to Zaire's ailing president, Mobutu Sese Soko, said Zaire would not take part in the summit meeting today.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Rwandan refugees who fled the fighting in Zaire wait at a transit camp on the border Monday for buses to take them to their hometowns in Rwanda.

Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

826 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 27, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FOR EXPANDED U.S. ASSISTANCE TO ZIMBABWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

To the Editor:
 We as Americans should provide a warm welcome for Prime Minister Robert Mugabe to the United States and rejoice that an independent Zimbabwe, based on majority rule, is taking its place in the United Nations.
his is one of the great triumphs of our time. Americans can take pride that over the last few years, the United States has played a role in the pursuit of peace and justice in Zimbabwe -that America has supported the Zimbabwe people's aspirations for freedom, joined in the African nation's tireless search for a just settlement and encouraged Britain's fulfillment of its colonial responsibility. We take special pride in our nation's persistent commitment to free and fair elections and in the successful effort to maintain sanctions until a democratic process was assured. 
The United States must now do everything possible to support Zimbabwe and to help assure the settlement's success. The Zimbabwe Government is clearly committed to reconciliation and pragmatic compromise in addressing postwar problems. Substantial resources will be needed if it is to succeed - resources to resettle refugees, rebuild the war-torn nation, retain white confidence and meet the black majority's expectations for a better future.
Three years ago, the United States pledged in the Anglo-American Proposals to provide up to $520 million over five years to support a settlement based on a democratic constitution and fair elections.  America should now fulfill that pledge. I recognize that the United States has provided early assistance to Zimbabwe to repair clinics, rebuild schools and resettle refugees. It is also true that approximately $50 million in American aid has been requested by the Carter Administration for the first 18 months of Zimbabwe's independence. Yet our nation pledged to do far more for an independent Zimbabwe. We can and should do more.
The U.S. also pledged to seek the support of other donors so that $1.5 billion in overall aid would be provided in the first five years of independence. This pledge should be fulfilled as well.
The future of all of southern Africa may well depend on Zimbabwe's success in the coming months. If there is lasting peace, based on majority rule and multi-racial cooperation, Namibia and South Africa will be profoundly affected. The United States now has a unique opportunity to invest in democracy and racial equality in southern Africa. I urge President Carter and the Congress to expand substantially American assistance to Zimbabwe now, when aid is desperately needed.  HASKELL G. WARD New York, Aug. 21, 1980 The writer, a former New York City deputy mayor, also served as a member of the State Department Policy Planning staff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company

829 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

September 9, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Limiting refugee admissions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 63 words

Each year a proposed ceiling is established for refugee admissions to the USA. For fiscal year 2004 (1), the celing is set at 70,000 and is allocated to these geographic regions:
Latin America/Caribbean: 3,500
Europe and Central Asia: 13,000
Africa: 25,000
East Asia: 6,500
Near East/South Asia: 2,000
Reserve: 20,000
1 - Oct. 1, 2003 to Sept. 30, 2004

LOAD-DATE: September 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Shannon Reilly and Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (MAP)

TYPE: SNAPSHOT

Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.

830 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

January 28, 1997 Tuesday Final Edition

Cross-Country

SOURCE: Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 691 words

BRITISH COLUMBIA
NEW WESTMINSTER, B.C.: KIDNAPPER RECEIVES 10-YEAR SENTENCE
A woman who grabbed an eight-year-old boy while he was walking to school and held him for ransom was sentenced yesterday to 10 years in prison.
Francis McLay, 44, of Delta, B.C., held Jordan Barnes for 30 hours at a Surrey, B.C., hotel in June 1995 before police freed him.
McLay had demanded a $150,000 ransom from the boy's parents.
Her lawyer said she wanted the money to buy her freedom from an abusive husband. 
Jordan, who attended the sentencing in B.C. Supreme Court, said he's glad it's all over.
MANITOBA
WINNIPEG: EXILED IRAQIS COMING TO CANADA
The biggest stream of refugees into Manitoba this year will be exiled Iraqis currently living in a wretched Saudi camp, says a Winnipeg refugee placement agency.
About 12,000 Iraqis have been languishing for years in the Rafgaa refugee camp since fleeing duty in Saddam Hussein's army, said Tom Denton, executive director of the International Centre.
The United Nations has made them a top priority, he said.
"It's a terrible camp. They are Iraqis who cannot go back to Saddam Hussein's Iraq because they would be killed."
Citizenship and Immigration Canada has advised the International Centre to expect 490 government-assisted refugees this year -- 215 from the Middle East, 165 from Europe, 100 from Africa, and 10 from Latin America.
In 1996, the International Centre settled 366 Europeans, all from the former Yugoslavia, 61 refugees from the Middle East, 48 Africans and 11 Latin Americans.
Resettlement is the UN's last resort, and among the 10 countries which will settle refugees, only Canada, the U.S. and Australia take significant numbers, Denton said.
QUEBEC
MONTREAL: POLICE ADMIT BREACH OF ETHICS
Four Montreal police officers found guilty of assaulting a cabbie who died of his injuries pleaded no contest yesterday to charges they broke the police code of ethics.
Quebec's police-ethics committee said Louis Samson, Andre Lapointe, Pierre Bergeron and Michel Vadeboncoeur used greater force than was necessary during the arrest and detention of taxi driver Richard Barnabe on Dec. 14, 1993.
They also violated their code of ethics with an abusive search and by ignoring Barnabe's condition when they took the injured man to police cells rather than to hospital.
Barnabe died last May after spending 29 months in a vegetative state. He never recovered from the coma he fell into during his detention.
The ethics committee is studying a recommendation that the officers be suspended between 150 and 200 days without pay.
The four were convicted in June 1995 of assault causing bodily harm and are appealing the verdict.
They were given relatively light sentences that were widely criticized. Two were given 90 days in prison, another drew a 60-day term and the fourth was to perform 180 hours of community work.
NEW BRUNSWICK
BAS CARAQUET, N.B.: MAN RECOVERING AFTER ARM TORN OFF
A man whose arm was torn off by a snowblower was recovering hospital yesterday.
Eric Paulin, 18, was in critical condition after emergency surgery Sunday.
Paulin had been working with a tractor equipped with a snowblower when his jacket got caught in the machinery. His arm was ripped off at the shoulder.
NOVA SCOTIA
HALIFAX: EXTRADITION HEARING COSTS AT LEAST $200,000
Canadian taxpayers have spent at least $200,000 so far on an extradition hearing which they don't legally have to pay for, in a high seas murder case they can't prosecute.
Closing arguments are to be heard this week in a case against officers of the container ship Maersk Dubai. The hearings began in September.
Six Taiwanese officers are accused of forcing three Romanian stowaways overboard last spring before the ship arrived in Halifax.
A Nova Scotia Supreme Court judge is deciding whether there is enough evidence for a trial, and the federal government will decide whether the accused men will be tried in Romania.
Under international treaties, Canada can force Romania to foot the bill. But a top official with the federal Justice Department says Canada won't likely make the demand.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

Copyright 1997 Metroland Media Group Ltd

831 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 19, 2015 Monday

Arkansas: Impact of Refugees on Small Town America the Story of "Outcasts United"

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Little Rock: University of Arkansas, The State of Arkansas has issued the following news release:

  

 Outcasts United: An American Town, a Refugee Team, and One Woman's Quest to Make a Difference by New York Times reporter Warren St. John is this year's University of Arkansas One Book, One Community selection. 


 

 The fast-paced narrative tells the true story of refugees from wars in the Middle East, Balkans and Africa who were re-settled in the small, &ldquo;All American&rdquo; town of Clarkson, Georgia. The re-settlement was as wrenching for the refugee families as it was for the townspeople. Soccer was a common link for the younger refugees and their coach, a young Jordanian woman, used that link to keep her players in school and out of trouble, despite local opposition. The youth soccer teams she led, known as the Fugees, became a symbol of the turmoil and change for both the refugees and the Clarkson community.

 

 In a video message to the campus interim Chancellor Dan Ferritor has encouraged everyone to read &ldquo;a book that tells stories and raises issues - issues as relevant for our community as they are for countless places in America.&rdquo;

 

 Elizabeth Young, associate professor in the School of Law, has scheduled an event to expand on the themes of Outcasts United. She will screen the recent film The Good Lie, starring Reese Witherspoon, about a group of Sudanese refugees resettled in Kansas City and the employment agency counselor who changes their lives. The film will be shown at 4 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 22 in the E.J. Ball Courtroom, room 240. Young will lead a discussion after the film.

 

 Outcasts United author Warren St. John will visit the U of A to give a free public lecture and sign books from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 5, in the Donald W. Reynolds Auditorium. He will also speak to Fayetteville Public Library book club members at 11:30 a.m. Friday, Nov. 6.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

835 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

January 5, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition
Correction Appended

Church's 'National Migration Week' Seeks to Ease Path

Gustav Niebuhr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 706 words

At a time when hostility to immigrants is on the rise in many parts of the United States, officials at the U.S. Catholic Conference are celebrating National Migration Week, hosting "multicultural" Masses to which recent arrivals have been invited to tell their stories.
When people get to know an individual immigrant, they often put aside their antagonism, said the Rev. Richard Ryscavage, who directs the conference's Migration and Refugee Services. "This is one tool the church can use to calm people in the country about immigrants . . . to take away the fear factor."
Near the close of a midday Mass at the conference's offices -- near Catholic University at 3211 4th St. NE -- a priest beckoned a slender young man to come up to the lectern and talk about how he came to the United States. 
Habtom T. Gebremichael -- a soft-spoken, 29-year-old from Eritrea, in east Africa -- took a few minutes to tell a harrowing story.
This is what he said: He was jailed by the former Marxist military government of Ethiopia, was tortured and later forced into the army. He escaped, walked to the neighboring nation of Djibouti, then took a boat to Saudi Arabia, where he worked two years. He bought a passport to get him to Sweden, where he sought political asylum, but was deported to Sudan, where he was arrested. He escaped, lived in Sudan for two years and then finally hiked five days through the desert to Egypt, where he found a Catholic church and a sponsoring organization that sent him to the United States.
"He's such a survivor. . . . There's such a will to carry on, such an energy. And that's an incredible gift to this country," said Ryscavage, a Jesuit priest.
The Mass was the first of three to be held at the conference's offices. Today a wounded Bosnian Croatian soldier and a Bosnian Muslim woman will offer their testimony. On Thursday, a Vietnamese-born woman who fled her country by boat in 1984 will speak.
Ryscavage said the speakers were chosen partly on the basis of their availability and partly because the staff at the migration office wanted to highlight concerns about African and Bosnian refugees.
But he also said that because the Catholic Church "pre-dates the establishment of sovereign states," it does not make the same legal distinctions among immigrants that governments do. "Ultimately, for the church, a newcomer is a newcomer, particularly if they are in need."
A statement deploring "the growing hostility toward immigrants," authorized in November by U.S. bishops, did not distinguish between legal and illegal immigration. Ryscavage said the church does not support illegal immigration, but believes that a "generous" provision should be made for allowing newcomers into the country.
"The church has such a solid moral ground to stand on, to say it's in the Gospel to welcome strangers," said Randy K. Glantz, spokesman for the bishops' refugee services.
At yesterday's Mass, the Rev. Tesfamarian Baraki noted that according to Scripture, Jesus's family was forced to flee for safety into Egypt shortly after his birth. He asked those present to remember "uprooted" persons everywhere.
After the Mass, Baraki, a priest in the Washington Archdiocese's Ethiopian and Eritrean Apostolate, said African refugees like Gebremichael face special difficulties. "As new immigrants, these people don't have a place in the black community or in the white community, so they are struggling."
Baraki, pastor of the Kidane-Mehret Ge'ez Rite Church -- which meets in the former high school All Souls, at 1001 Lawrence St. NE -- said between 30,000 and 50,000 Ethiopians and Eritreans live in the United States; about 5 percent are Catholics. Many came to this country with no family and are expected to send money home. It can be very stressful, he said.
"Just in December, we heard of three suicides . . . because these young people don't have any support systems. And they're trying to support their families back in their homelands," Baraki said.
At this point, Gebremichael spoke up, saying, "Well, I'm lucky. Some [Eritrean] refugees died in the desert. They couldn't find water." On the other hand, he said, he had been laid off on Friday from his job as a shuttle bus driver.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: In an article Wednesday, the Rev. Tesfamarian Baraki was quoted incorrectly. He said that between 30,000 and 50,000 Ethiopian and Eritrean immigrants live in the Washington metropolitan area.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HABTOM T. GEBREMICHAEL, A REFUGEE FROM ERITREA, TOLD A HARROWING STORY OF DIFFICULTIES IN FLEEING HIS HOMELAND. CRAIG HERNDON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

840 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times Blogs
(Sinosphere)

September 9, 2015 Wednesday

For China, Migrant Crisis Is Someone Else's Fault, and Responsibility

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 737 words


HIGHLIGHT: China is reluctant to get involved in efforts to solve humanitarian crises that it believes are not of its own making. It sees the global refugee crisis as a byproduct of the American and European propensity to push for regime change in places like Syria. 

Earlier this year, as war-dazed Syrians fled to Europe and the Rohingya ran from murder in Myanmar, European diplomats suggested to their Chinese counterparts it might be good to talk about migration. There was a perfect opportunity: the 17th E.U.-China Summit in Brussels in June.
The Chinese demurred and suggested instead talking about the safer topic of disability, said a European diplomat familiar with the situation who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
The message: China is reluctant to get involved in efforts to solve humanitarian crises that it believes are not of its own making. 
Money tells the same, hands-off, story. 
Since 2012, China has contributed $14 million in humanitarian aid to help solve ''civil unrest'' in Syria, about 0.1 percent of the $14 billion donated by countries and organizations around the world, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. That puts the world's second-largest economy, with the world's biggest currency reserves, in 32nd place, behind Japan (ninth, having contributed $445 million with $24 million more pledged). 
Although China sent ships to evacuate its own citizens caught up in the fighting in Libya in 2011 and this year in Yemen, it believes the migrant crisis sweeping Europe is mostly the fault, and responsibility, of the United States and Europe, for trying to foment political change in countries such as Syria and Libya. 
''A part is due to a minority of so-called 'democrats' in those countries, who are determined to subvert stable authoritarian rule there,'' Tian Wenlin, a scholar at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, wrote in People's Daily.
''The main reason, however, is that the United States and Europe took the opportunity to carry out 'regime change,''' Mr. Tian wrote. 
''In truth, the U.S. and Europe's tyrannical foreign policy is both frightening and stupid,'' he continued. ''It has caused massive disasters in western Asia and northern Africa that are now boomeranging on Europe and the U.S.''
But China does have responsibilities, as a party to both United Nations' refugee agreements, the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol. There are a quarter of a million Chinese refugees and asylum seekers around the world, while about 300,000 people from other countries are refugees in China, according to the U.N.H.C.R.,  the United Nations' refugee agency.
Asked if China had received requests from governments or organizations to assist with the migrant crisis in the Middle East and Europe, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't answer directly, saying instead, ''China has noted the recent immigration issue.'' 
''Appropriately settling the immigration issue is related to the economic development, social stability and integration process in Europe,'' the ministry statement said. ''Striking a blow against illegal immigration activities and resolving humanitarian crises is the common wish of international society.'' 
''Immigration questions are complicated and sensitive. Their roots lie in uneven development and regional instability,'' it added.  ''We believe Europe and relevant countries can unite and respond to this major challenge and appropriately solve related issues to maintain regional security and stability.''
In any case, the chatter on social media suggests that many Chinese oppose taking in Syrians, who make up 53 percent of the thousands fleeing to Europe. 
Another 14 percent are from Afghanistan, while 7 percent are from Eritrea and most of the rest from other African countries, according to the U.N.H.C.R.
So far Chinese are ''overwhelmingly against the idea, saying China is not responsible for turbulence in the Middle East, many Chinese people are still living in poverty and that the refugees won't want to come to China anyway,'' the Hong Kong Free Press reported.
But some disagreed. One poster, frankkee, on the popular Tianya forum noted that China and Israel's friendship began over the safe haven China offered to Jews fleeing Hitler, and much of America's talent came from its millions of refugees from Europe. ''Taking in some refugees from the Middle East,'' wrote frankkee, "will certainly do more good than harm.''
Smugglers cast 5,000 people adrift on Andaman Sea. Read stories of survivors: http://t.co/R4Gh203ywq http:/pic.twitter.com/USQ5X0se1Z
- United Nations (@UN)7 Sep 15
 Follow Didi Kirsten Tatlow on Twitter @dktatlow.  

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

842 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Denver Post

December 11, 2016 Sunday  
SUN PERSPECT Edition

No room at the inn?

BYLINE: Bruce Finley

SECTION: PERSPECT; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 1424 words

When Syrian high school English teacher Ishan Moazzen, one of the world's 65 million uprooted people, faced conscription into President Bashar Assad's army, he fled his home in the battered city of Aleppo and reached Turkey.
"I could be dead now. Or I could be captured and held in a Free Syria prison," Moazzen, 30, said in an Istanbul backstreet where he was tending shop, selling saffron and candies to veiled Saudi Arabian tourists.
If he stayed in Syria, as a soldier, he could have been ordered to fire on fellow Syrians in the war, he said. "I would have to shoot or be shot."
But his morality based move has proved punishing. 
A migration crisis is shaking governments. And a backlash against refugees (Central Americans fleeing for U.S. cities such as Denver, Syrians and others aiming for Europe and North America) increasingly impedes their search for safety.
Once receptive nations such as Sweden, fearing overwhelming masses in cities, hold asylum seekers in isolated rural camps. Australia detains asylum seekers for years on a South Pacific island, Nauru shrugging off human rights criticism.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security imprisons Honduran, Guatemalan and El Salvadoran women and children who fled persecution by gangs. U.S. officials now hold some asylum seekers in a third country, Costa Rica, while backlogged applications are processed.
President elect Donald Trump has vowed he will build more walls, register Muslims, and bar resettlement of more refugees in the United States, unless security vetting, to weed out terrorists, is increased, even though multiple federal agencies already investigate refugees before they board planes to assigned cities.
United Nations officials bristle at the backlash.
"Access to safety for persons in need of international protection in the region (Turkey) and beyond is crucial," UN High Commission for Refugees spokesman Selin Unal said. "We need all countries to keep their borders open for purposes of protection and asylum and to provide much needed opportunities for those Syrians in need of humanitarian admissions beyond the immediate region."
This fall, UN leaders held a first global refugee summit. They proposed to bring countries together to hash out a coordinated approach that shares burdens, but member states, including the United States, balked at taking any action.
No matter how this plays out, the pressures uprooting people probably won't go away. Environmental change may churn out more refugees.
In our world, people have been migrating since before nations were formed. So what does it mean now if the world's neediest people can't find safe space to resettle?
Moazzen lamented that, after two years scrambling to survive in Istanbul with Europe and the United States looking inhospitable, he was considering crossing back into Syria. Bombing in Aleppo was intensifying last summer as we spoke.
"It feels really bad," he said, comparing himself to the fisherman in his favorite book, Ernest Hemingway's "Old Man and the Sea."
Turkey stands out. It is struggling to absorb 3 million refugees from neighboring Syria. Thousands sleep on streets. Thousands more cram into abandoned buildings, squatting. Many need health care. Few speak the language. Children toil in sweatshops so their families can eat. Turkey issues few work permits and grants "temporary protection" rather than recognize legal refugee status.
Turkish officials are tracking Syrians, requiring credit card sized paper ID cards for access to limited health care and schools. They've registered 400,000 in Istanbul (population 14 million) and International Organization of Migration officials say many more likely reside in the city. The situation is comparable to a surge of 80,000 non English speakers into metro Denver more than all annual refugee admissions into the United States.
European Union officials have been pressing Turkey to act as a buffer, preventing mass uncontrolled migration into Europe. After 2015, when more than 1 million Syrians and Africans entered Europe at a time when terrorism linked to immigrants was rising, the EU negotiated to pay Turkey $6 billion if it accepted refugees turned back from Greece.
Being Europe's buffer against migrants presents one more challenge for Turkey, a nation already teetering on the cusp of so much: tradition vs. modernity, secular vs. religion, democracy vs. dictatorial rule.
When I was in Turkey, during the purges the week after the bloody failed coup in July, Turkish officials indicated they might reject the deal unless Europe paid the $6 billion as promised and granted Turks benefits including visa free travel in Europe.
The surge in migration looms so large at UN headquarters that the replacement for retiring Secretary General Ban Ki moon will be the former UN High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres who has focused on migration since 2005.
Here are the key trends:
*More uprooted people Beyond the wars in Syria and Iraq and unrest in Africa that are churning out record numbers of refugees, UN agencies predict climate change will uproot millions more. The UN estimates 22.5 million people a year were displaced since 2008 due, in part, to natural disasters and climate related factors. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the UN's global science advisory board, projects an accelerating increase. "People are twice as likely to be displaced now than they were in the 1970s," the IPCC said in a recent report. "Unless strong climate mitigation and adaptation measures are implemented worldwide, alongside disaster preparedness and disaster risk reduction measures, this trend is expected to increase."
*Burden shifts to cities Migrants increasingly shun borderland tent camps and move into cities because of perceived better opportunities to meet basic needs and move on. In Turkey, fewer than than 10 percent of the Syrian refugees have stayed in refugee camps.
*Closing doors in the U.S., Australia and Europe Countries that traditionally absorbed the most migrants increasingly restrict access. Nationalist backlash movements in Sweden, Norway, Germany and France are forcing leaders to close doors. British Prime Minister Theresa May, after the "Brexit" driven in part by anti migrant sentiments, said migrants ought to be kept in countries they flee into first such as Turkey.
*Rising security worries The terrorist bombing at Istanbul's airport, after the attacks in Paris linked to Islamic State militants, has piqued security concerns. UN officials have agreed to cooperate with national authorities to conduct more careful screening of migrants who claim to be refugees. "It's always possible that people that enter countries as refugees commit crimes and, when somebody does that, the person has to be pursued according to the principle of criminal law," UNHCR spokesman Unal said. "The fact that they are refugees does not exempt them at all from national law. But it would be dangerous to generalize and to say that because one refugee, or a few, have done something wrong that all refugees are criminals. It's important to remember refugees are fleeing for their lives."
For Moazzen, frustration sets in as tourists come and go and he feels his life slipping away. The land of the free that produced Hemingway no longer appears to be an option, he reckoned, saying he's heard that an application for asylum in the United States would require evidence he'd be killed within hours if returned to Syria.
He shook his head. The claim that Syrians fleeing war may be dangerous Islamic State sympathizers "is pretext" for rejecting refugees, he said. Islamic State fighters in Syria and Iraq often are disaffected immigrants from Europe or North America, not Syrians, he said.
Another Syrian stuck here Samer Alkadri, 42, who fled Damascus via Jordan with his wife and children said he now views Europeans who want Turkey to be their buffer and Americans who reject refugees as morally bankrupt.
He's given up trying to move on. Instead, he said he'll make the best of being marooned in a crowded Fatih neighborhood in Istanbul next to ruins of a Byzantine church. Alkadri founded the Pages Bookstore Cafe, catering to the growing numbers of Arabic speaking refugees, with a play area for kids and aspirations of becoming an oasis for cultural mixing. The idea is to be second home that gives intellectual sustenance to refugees who increasingly are left in limbo.
Pages reflects a spirit of humanity at a time when too many people turn their backs, Alkadri said.
"We need a new system," he said. "for humanity."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A boy plays in a puddle at a makeshift camp occupied by migrants and refugees at the Greek-Macedonian border near the village of Idomeni on March 24. Andrej Isakovic, AFP/Getty Images file

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
All Rights Reserved

843 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

February 19, 2001 Monday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Refugees in Kenya Tell of Shakedown by U.N. Agency 

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1167 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Feb. 14  

Dahir is too afraid to give his full name, and for good reason: he is a refugee. So far, at least three people with far more standing -- Western workers at the United Nations here -- have received death threats. For their safety, they were flown out of Kenya. No one will do that for Dahir.
     But they all reportedly know about the same thing: unfolding allegations that refugees like Dahir, most of them poor and fleeing war, were turned into a business by the very people who were supposed to protect them.  
 United Nations investigators are quietly sifting through evidence that corrupt workers with the United Nations high commissioner for refugees in Kenya -- a country where corruption is the norm -- extorted fees for the agency's essential services, which are supposed to be free. The fees are rumored to range from a few dollars for an appointment or to fill out a form, to up to $5,000 for a new life in the United States, Canada or Australia.
Dahir, 27, an Ethiopian who fled his country in 1993, said he paid $3,400, sent mostly by friends abroad, to two United Nations workers at a hotel in Kenya's capital, Nairobi, last July. He said he paid out of frustration that his application to move to the West had stalled for four years, while friends waiting far less time had left as asylum seekers to the United States.
"They said, 'We paid, we got the flight,' " said Dahir, who says he left Ethiopia in the 1990's because he was tortured. "They said, 'Don't wait. There is no right of refugees in this place. Your right is your money. Just use your pocket.' "
Last year, 9,383 refugees from countries like Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia were approved to move to outside countries through the United Nations refugee agency's branch office in Nairobi, where the allegations are centered.
Most eligible refugees have been persecuted or cannot return home for other reasons. Ten countries accept such asylum seekers from East Africa, but the allegations of corruption focus on refugees going to the United States, which accepts most of the asylum seekers, Canada and Australia.
Daniel Tshitungi, head of the Kenya office, said it was impossible to know how widespread the corruption was -- how many refugees paid to be resettled, over what period, and whether any unqualified people simply paid to get asylum -- before an investigation by senior United Nations officials was completed.
Mr. Tshitungi acknowledged, however, that the investigation centered on at least four employees, responsible for processing and vetting the applications of thousands of refugees, and that the corruption appeared to date at least to December 1999.
"It's being handled in a very efficient way, but we don't want to make noise about it," Mr. Tshitungi said.
Several people with knowledge of the investigation say the allegations of corruption extend beyond the United Nations office to at least one private agency, and even to workers inside foreign embassies who handle asylum requests.
Peter Claussen, a spokesman for the American Embassy in Nairobi, acknowledged that an American investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization Service had been to Kenya recently to decide whether to initiate a separate probe. He said, however, that no American Embassy workers were suspects.
Officials with the many organizations that assist refugees in Kenya -- where each day's newspapers carry articles about one corruption scandal or another -- are unusually afraid to speak out publicly about the allegations. Much of that fear stems from death threats to at least three United Nations employees, one American and two Europeans, who reportedly found out about the scheme. The threats were considered so serious that all three were evacuated from Kenya late last year.
Three of the suspects are Kenyan, Mr. Tshitungi said. They still have their jobs -- which people familiar with the investigation said put them in the powerful position of deciding which applications to forward to higher-ups -- though with what Mr. Tshitungi called severely curtailed responsibilities.
The remaining suspect, an Italian who worked at the Nairobi office for about two years, did not have his contract renewed as a result of the allegations, Mr. Tshitungi said.
Refugees, as well as people who work with them here in Nairobi, said everything had a price in the Kenya branch of the refugee agency: Guards at the door had to be tipped, they said. One current employee recalled asking about 35 refugees in the Kakuma refugee camp in northern Kenya, where roughly 100,000 refugees live, how many had paid bribes to guards on the way into the refugee agency's offices there. Nearly everyone stood up, the employee said.
"I said, 'Why do you pay?' They said, 'Ah, well, life is sometimes hard.' " The most expensive service was the one refugees wanted most: resettlement in the West.
According to refugees, the corrupt workers were able to deliver what they sold -- suggesting to some United Nations officials that corruption is not limited to a handful of relatively junior employees.
Business relied on an elaborate system of people known as "brokers," who would scout out refugees, negotiate prices and help the chosen through bureaucratic obstacles.
One Somali refugee, Ahmed, said he was approached several times during the last two years by brokers who promised him passage west for as much as $5,000. He recalled a specific meeting in a Nairobi cafe where "that person told me: 'Pay $3,000 and I'll arrange your case. If you know other people who will pay, we will give you a discount. I will hold your hand into the office.' "
Ahmed said he turned down all offers.
Dahir and two other refugees, another Ethiopian and a Somali, described how the heads of 30 families met last summer in a hotel in downtown Nairobi. Each person, including Dahir representing his family, went with an envelope stuffed with $3,400 for resettlement in the United States.
At the meeting, they said, were two Kenyan United Nations workers, who filled out forms and collected photographs. Also present were two Europeans who did not work for the United Nations, one apparently the owner of the hotel, and a Somali who acted as broker.
But this deal was not completed -- because of the investigation, the refugees suspect.
Mr. Tshitungi said he first requested an investigation, after refugees began complaining to him about corruption, in December 1999. That inquiry, run out of United Nations headquarters in Nairobi, ended inconclusively last June, he said.
He said he then requested a second probe, which began in November. That month, Mr. Tshitungi also placed advertisements in The Nation, a Kenyan daily, reminding refugees that the services were free.
Dahir and the other refugees who paid the $3,400 said they had gone back repeatedly to one of the United Nations workers and the Somali broker. At least one of the refugees has been beaten up as a result of the inquiries, they said, adding that they now seem to have lost both their money and the chance to emigrate.      

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2001  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

844 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 29, 2015 Tuesday

New Maxico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Santa Fe: New Mexico State university has issued the following news release:

  

 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in Albuquerque, New Mexico. 


 

 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says, they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to figure out life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees' strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.

 

 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the change students see in themselves.

 

     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it really means to be a refugee.

 

     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say, "Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.

 

     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . . . I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.

 

 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local community centers, bring food and talk about everything.

 

 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of the advocacy," he said.

 

 He shot and produced a video about his experience.

 

 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda.

 

 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.

 

     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?' And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)

 

     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner] and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)

 

     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S. cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)       

 

 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way they think about people who live in Albuquerque.

 

 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusme

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

845 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 29, 2015 Tuesday

New Maxico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Santa Fe: New Mexico State university has issued the following news release:

  

 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in Albuquerque, New Mexico. 


 

 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says, they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to figure out life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees' strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.

 

 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the change students see in themselves.

 

     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it really means to be a refugee.

 

     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say, "Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.

 

     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . . . I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.

 

 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local community centers, bring food and talk about everything.

 

 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of the advocacy," he said.

 

 He shot and produced a video about his experience.

 

 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda.

 

 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.

 

     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?' And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)

 

     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner] and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)

 

     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S. cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)       

 

 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way they think about people who live in Albuquerque.

 

 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusme

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

846 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 22, 2015 Tuesday

New Mexico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Santa Fe: New Mexico State university has issued the following news release:

  

 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in Albuquerque, New Mexico. 


 

 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says, they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to figure out life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees' strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.

 

 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the change students see in themselves.

 

     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it really means to be a refugee.

 

     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say, "Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.

 

     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . . . I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.

 

 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local community centers, bring food and talk about everything.

 

 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of the advocacy," he said.

 

 He shot and produced a video about his experience.

 

 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United States.

 

 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda.

 

 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.

 

     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?' And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)

 

     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner] and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)

 

     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S. cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)       

 

 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way they think about people who live in Albuquerque.

 

 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusme

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

855 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

September 15, 2016 Thursday

White House goal: 110,000 refugees

BYLINE: By Josh Lederman Associated Press

SECTION: WASHINGTON_; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 371 words

WASHINGTON -- The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the previous year. 
The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.
Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where the origins of the crisis have been most pronounced.
An additional 35,000 will come from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.
The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region once Congress is notified.
Secretary of State John Kerry had previously suggested that the U.S. target would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure on Tuesday.
The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before that, the target was 70,000 per year.
The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected to people who had spent time in Syria.
Officials said that potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.
The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil war that has killed roughly half a million people.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

856 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

November 6, 1996 Wednesday Final Edition

UN urged to send force into Zaire: But Zairians boycott talks until Rwandans leave their territory

SOURCE: Spectator Wire Services

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI

African leaders urged the United Nations Security Council yesterday to rapidly deploy a "neutral force" in eastern Zaire to help 1.2 million Hutu refugees facing famine and epidemics.
At a summit in Nairobi, capital of nearby Kenya, seven east and central African leaders said the force should create safe corridors to repatriate refugees to Rwanda and Burundi and provide temporary sanctuary for the huge mass of people.
The leaders called for an immediate ceasefire in fighting between Zaire's ramshackle army and ethnic Tutsi rebels who have captured parts of eastern Zaire and its main towns. 
The leaders of Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia, Eritrea and the foreign minister of Cameroon attended the Nairobi summit. But Zaire boycotted the meeting, saying it will not attend such talks until foreign troops -- a reference to Rwanda -- leave its territory.
The summit outcome clearly passed the ball back to the world's powerful countries, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, and told them to organize a military intervention.
As they met, Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to the United States, prepared to travel to France where he planned to meet Zairian President Mobutu Sese Seko today. Last week, the United Nations appointed Mr. Chretien as special envoy to try to solve the crisis in central Africa.
Mr. Mobutu is at his villa in Nice after three months of prostate cancer treatment in Switzerland. His spokesman Kabuya Lumuna says he will stay a while in France, then return home.
The difficulty of sorting out the crisis was obvious when leaders at the Nairobi summit said bona fide refugees should be separated from "intimidators" -- thousands of former Rwandan government soldiers and militiamen mainly responsible for killing about half a million of Rwanda's minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus in 1994.
Those armed men fled Rwanda with civilians, mainly to Zaire, after the genocide when the mainly Tutsi rebels took power in Rwanda.
Most Hutu refugees refuse to go home, saying they would rather die. Rwanda's jails already hold over 80,000 Hutu genocide suspects and many of the refugees have blood on their hands.
With each passing day, less is known of the whereabouts of the refugees, now without any UN protection or support since fighting forced the last international aid workers out of Zaire on Saturday.
The rebel Tutsis declared a unilateral three-week ceasefire Monday to allow the refugees safe passage home.
Andre Kissase Ngandu, leader of the rebels in Goma, said their goal is to "free all of Zaire. . . .Mobutu is finished. Politically, he is finished."
Valentine Moboya, a political science student, said Mr. Mobutu, "ruined the country. Zaire was once prosperous, but now it is very poor."
In eastern Zaire, a Canadian nun and eight other people earlier reported to have been taken hostage are safe, the Belgian Foreign Ministry said yesterday. "They are safe and out of the combat zone (and) it is not clear if they were taken hostage or not," a foreign ministry spokesman said.
The political atmosphere in the Zairian capital Kinshasa remained tense yesterday as hundreds of people, defying a ban on anti-Rwanda demonstrations, set up roadblocks and hijacked cars.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chretien Photo:; AP / Protesters defying a ban on demonstrations threw stones yesterday at Zairian soldiers.

TYPE: News

Copyright 1996 Metroland Media Group Ltd

857 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

May 19, 2017 Friday

Refugee claimant who walked into Manitoba granted refugee status

SECTION: Pg. B6

LENGTH: 583 words

WINNIPEG ? Five months after nearly freezing to death on a treacherous walk across the Canada-U.S. border, and still learning to get along without the 10 fingers and thumbs he lost to frostbite, Seidu Mohammed is happy.
He gets to stay in Canada.
The Immigration and Refugee Board has granted Mohammed refugee status on the basis that the 24-year-old bisexual professional soccer player from Ghana would face persecution if returned to his home country. 
"I feel so happy. I feel now that this country is my home now," he said Thursday, sitting at the kitchen table in his home. With a bit of effort, he opened a binder and produced the written decision from the Immigration and Refugee Board.
"I want to do anything possible to contribute to this country because this country has done a lot to me that I didn't expect. Ever since I came here, I've seen a lot of good people who give me courage and also support me."
Mohammed fled Ghana to the United States in 2015. Like many asylum seekers from Africa, he first flew to Ecuador - where no visas are required - then made his way by bus through Central America and then to the U.S., where he spent several months in a detention centre.
His sought asylum on the basis that as a bisexual man, he would face serious physical harm if he had to return to Ghana. The United Nations office of the high commissioner on human rights, among other groups, has criticized Ghana's government for criminalizing homosexuality and allowing gays and lesbians to be subject to discrimination and harassment.
Mohammed said his asylum claim in the U.S. was rejected because he was unable to gather supporting evidence from his home country while locked up in the detention centre. Phone calls overseas from the detention centre are expensive and applicants can burn through the money they have in a short call, he said.
"They didn't give you a chance to let them know that you are in a difficult position," he said.
"You can't get enough evidence to show them ... what you are facing."
Released from custody pending deportation, Mohammed made it to North Dakota, took a cab to an area near the border at Emerson, Man. and, along with a fellow asylum seeker he met, walked seven hours in the dark as wind chill dipped to -30 C.
It was Dec. 24. The two men passed Emerson without realizing it and were eventually found by a trucker near Letellier, Man. - 14 kilometres to the north - nearly frozen and disoriented.
The men spent weeks in hospital. Mohammed's fingers and thumbs were removed and his hands now resemble stumps. The man he crossed the border with is still waiting to learn his fate, he said.
The Immigration and Refugee Board ruling said Mohammed would face a "serious possibility of persecution" if he was returned to Ghana.
"The evidence demonstrates that sexual minorities face discrimination, hostility, violence, stigmatization, prosecution and imprisonment," it says.
His lawyer, Bashir Khan, said Mohammed has shown a lot of determination - mentally and physically - to adapt to life without his fingers and thumbs.
"Mentally, he's very strong," Khan said.
"Physically, it's of course very difficult to readjust and cope ... so I think he has a lot of rehabilitation (ahead)."
Mohammed said he's adjusting to every day life - he likes buttoned shirts, for example, but has to wear T-shirts and sweaters that don't have buttons. The doors in the home where he is staying have adapters on them so they can be opened easily. !@COPYRIGHT= 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
All Rights Reserved

859 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

December 3, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST 

U.S. Quits Migration Pact, Saying It Infringes on Sovereignty

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: WORLD; americas

LENGTH: 922 words


HIGHLIGHT: Critics said the Trump administration's withdrawal from U.N. talks on the migration crisis had reinforced an image of renewed American isolationism.

The Trump administration has quit participating in talks on a proposed United Nations agreement to improve ways of handling global flows of migrants and refugees, describing it as a subversion of American sovereignty.
The administration's decision to renounce the talks on the agreement, the Global Compact on Migration, was announced in a statement Saturday night by the United States Mission to the United Nations, surprising migrant-rights advocates who called it shortsighted and counterproductive.
Many said the decision appeared to reinforce what they called an atmosphere of renewed American isolationism and exceptionalism at the United Nations in the first year of the Trump White House.
Trump administration officials said the decision was not an American repudiation of cooperation with other countries but a rightful defense of the government's power to determine who can enter the United States.
"While we will continue to engage on a number of fronts at the United Nations, in this case, we simply cannot in good faith support a process that could undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration laws and secure our borders," Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said in a statement on Sunday.
The decision was welcomed by President Trump's base of supporters, which has extolled his demands for stricter American immigration rules and a clampdown on refugees, as well as his promises to build a wall along the Mexico border.
Conservative websites that support Mr. Trump, which viewed the proposed migration pact as a threat to national security, prominently reported the news. "Breaking. U.S. Withdraws From Obama-Negotiated U.N. Agreement on Mass Migration," read the headline on Redstate.com
The United States Mission said in its statement that it had informed Secretary General Antnio Guterres that "the United States is ending its participation in the Global Compact on Migration."
The United States has been part of the talks since they began in April, the outcome of a political declaration in New York by all 193 members of the United Nations last year in favor of protecting the rights of migrants and refugees by assuring their safe resettlement and access to employment and education.
The Obama administration was a strong advocate of the declaration, and Mr. Guterres has said he considers the agreement a major goal for 2018.
Mr. Trump's United Nations ambassador, Nikki R. Haley, said in the statement announcing the withdrawal that the declaration contained "numerous provisions that are inconsistent with U.S. immigration and refugee policies and the Trump administration's immigration principles."
Ms. Haley, a child of Indian immigrants, emphasized in the statement that "America is proud of our immigrant heritage and our longstanding moral leadership in providing support to migrant and refugee populations across the globe."
However, she said, "our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by Americans and Americans alone."
The decision made migration the second major topic of a United Nations agreement to be repudiated by the Trump administration this year. Six months ago, it announced American withdrawal from the Paris Climate accord to combat global warming.
The Trump White House also has moved to distance itself from some key United Nations agencies over political issues, including Unesco -- the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization -- and the United Nations Population Fund, the world's leading provider of family-planning services.
The migration announcement came two days before a United Nations conference on migration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, in which the United States had been expected to actively participate.
The announcement also came against the backdrop of growing migrant and refugee crises from wars, conflicts and deprivation that have afflicted the Middle East, Africa and parts of Asia.
Chaotic cross-border migration has provoked political backlashes in Europe and helped create booms in the smuggling and exploitation of migrants and refugees across the Mediterranean from Africa. Just last week, rights advocates expressed outrage at video showing African migrant men in Libya sold as slaves.
The United Nations has estimated that more than 60 million people have been displaced around the world, the largest figure since World War II.
Migrant-rights advocates expressed a mix of shock and bafflement at the Trump administration's announcement, asserting that nothing proposed in the Global Compact would be mandatory. Some said the absence of the United States from the agreement could worsen the problems.
"An unwillingness even to negotiate international principles for safe, regular and orderly migration is a head-in-the-sand denial of a basic reality of human history," said Bill Frelick, the refugee rights program coordinator at Human Rights Watch.
"Simplistic solutions like walls will not solve the complex problem of unsafe, irregular, disorderly migration, demonstrating a callous disregard for the lives of migrants and jaw-dropping irresponsibility toward the community of nations," Mr. Frelick said.
Kevin Appleby, the international migration policy director at the Scalabrini International Migration Network, a New York-based advocacy group, said the Trump administration was "more interested in appeasing a small minority of Americans than working with the world on a pressing global issue."
Somini Sengupta contributed reporting.

Related Articles

	Trump Will Withdraw U.S. From Paris Climate Agreement

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

866 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

January 28, 2004 Wednesday

Refugee family to resettle in St. Petersburg

BYLINE: KRISTIE A. MARTINEZ

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG

Their home has been a canvas tent in a sandy refugee camp in Kenya.
They're accustomed to cooking their food over open fires and digging their own latrines. They have no written language and have lived their lives as social outcasts and victims of oppression.
The universe will soon change for a Somali Bantu family that will be settling in St. Petersburg. They were to arrive late Tuesday night. 
Soon they will be learning about microwaves, refrigerators, indoor plumbing and all the other modern conveniences Americans take for granted.
"The transition is going to be huge for them," said Jessica Cabness, coordinator of the Refugee Mentors Ministry of St. Joseph's Catholic Church in St. Petersburg.
The Bantu family, made up of a couple and their five children, ages 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9, is being resettled in a home in the city's Midtown area. They are among the first of the estimated 300 Bantu refugees slated to come to the Tampa Bay area this year and next as part of 12,000 Bantus being relocated to 50 cities across the United States. Local volunteers have been rushing around in the past few days renting a house, buying food, moving furniture - and wondering how they'll communicate with the family.
Officials at Catholic Charities still haven't located a caseworker who can speak Swahili, one of three African languages the family may speak.
"In the beginning, we may just communicate with hand signals and pointing," said Mary Ann Smelter, a member of the refugee ministry who plans to spend this morning with the family.
Mentors from St. Joseph's will visit the Bantu family twice every day for about a month to help them settle into their new home and learn English.
The Bantus are descendants of East African tribes traded as slaves by Arab sultans in the 1800s. Though slavery ended in 1930, the Bantus continued to be treated as second-class citizens in Somalia, a country on the eastern horn of Africa, because they are culturally, linguistically and physically different from dominant-clan Somalis.
In 1991 and 1992, during the civil war in Somalia, many Bantus were killed, robbed or raped, according to international news reports. Many fled to northern Kenyan refugee camps, where they have been waiting to be resettled.
Tampa Bay was chosen as a resettlement area because it has many agencies that can address refugees' needs, said Jose Fernandez, director of immigration and refugee services at Catholic Charities in St. Petersburg. Catholic Charities has resettled refugees from Vietnam, Cuba, Russia and the former Yugoslavia, and will resettle 202 Somali Bantus. Staff members of Catholic Charities will link the Bantus to various social services, medical care, employment and schools in the area.
Members of the refugee ministry at St. Joseph's have collected furniture and household items for the family, located a resettlement home and arranged to provide transportation and food for the Bantu family. They also will help the Bantu family learn the basics necessary to navigate everyday life in St. Petersburg, Smelter said.
She and the other refugee mentors will teach the family such things as how to shop for groceries and how to use the city bus system. The Somali Bantus are unlike other refugees because they do not have a written language.
"It's a real concern that the Somali Bantu refugees may be preliterate," Cabness said.  
But the lack of a written language will not keep the Bantus from learning to speak English. The Pinellas County school system is preparing to help the Bantu children in programs for non-English speakers. Various social agencies are ready to help the adults learn English, Cabness said.
Locally, the resettlement coordinators at St. Joseph's came together out of a shared concern for immigrants, said Cabness, the group's coordinator.
When she was in college, Cabness traveled to Africa with Operation Crossroads Africa, a forerunner of the Peace Corps.
"The issue of immigration resonates with me," said Cabness, a gerontologist and social work professor at USF St. Petersburg.
"I've lived abroad - and have been to West Africa, so I know the conditions that people live in in developing countries. I know what it's like to be a foreigner in a strange land.  And most of all, I've always experienced the kindness of strangers in other countries."
Smelter, of the St. Joseph's refugee ministry, said she is used to working with the poor and that she has visited very poor nations, particularly in South America.
The St. Joseph's ministry plans to assist Catholic Charities in helping the Bantu family for six months to a year, depending on the family's needs, Cabness said. "We will try to help them become self-sufficient beginning in the fourth month," she said.
 
- Kristie A. Martinez reported this story for the Neighborhood News Bureau, a program of the Department of Journalism and Media Studies at the University of South Florida St. Petersburg.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company

867 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

May 21, 2003 Wednesday  
 Late Edition - Final 

LETTER FROM AFRICA; 
Liberia Seen as Icon of World's Neglect of Africa

BYLINE:  By Somini Sengupta 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: FREETOWN, Sierra Leone, May 16  

At a popular restaurant here on the water's edge, the dinner menu offers a rare item: a vegetarian version of the traditional West African groundnut stew. Vegetarianism is anathema in this part of the world. But adjustments have had to be made in Sierra Leone because the world is here.
     Tens of thousands of foreigners have come to help restore peace in this tiny West African country. Pakistani peacekeepers patrol the streets. Norwegians are putting up houses for amputees (the most compelling casualties of Sierra Leone's decade-long war). The Bangladeshis have built a "friendship school."  
 War criminals are to be tried in a new courthouse, under construction now, courtesy of foreign donors. Already, 17,000 United Nations peacekeepers, the largest such force in the world, have disarmed the warlords and drug-addled child soldiers who carried on this country's decade-long war. Some people call this the United Nations of Sierra Leone. 
Today, Sierra Leone makes a strong case for international intervention. What makes it all the more remarkable -- and fragile -- is what stands next door: a portrait of neglect, an American invention called Liberia. 
The contrast is striking. The World Food Program can no longer deliver food aid to much of Liberia because its workers keep coming under attack by armed thugs. Liberian refugees have rushed by the hundreds of thousands into neighboring countries. Liberian mercenaries have ranged across West Africa, in search of new conflicts and attendant looting opportunities.
Liberian enemy factions -- the government of President Charles Taylor in one corner and rebels in another -- have made deadly alliances with rebel leaders and heads of state in next-door Guinea and Ivory Coast.
These are foul wars of revenge and greed. The misery they produce cannot be healed without ending the carnage in Liberia, analysts of the region agree.
But Liberia gets scant international attention. That negligence is a product of Liberia's peculiar history. The British took the lead in corralling international intervention for Sierra Leone, its former colony on this patch. The French have had 4,000 soldiers planted in Ivory Coast, its former colony. Liberia does not have a conventional colonial history. It was founded by freed American slaves in 1847; "the love of liberty brought us here," the Liberian coat of arms reads. 
For nearly 150 years, Liberia remained a virtual American colony, and during the cold war it ranked among Washington's most useful allies. The memory of that strategic alliance sits on the outskirts of the capital. It is called the V.O.A. refugee camp, named after the Voice of America radio transmitter that once stood there.
The United States has never recognized itself as an imperial power, let alone a colonial one. Even the title of "occupying power" is worn uncomfortably today in Iraq, where the now frayed term "liberator" has been the label of choice.
So America's former virtual colony seems to be nowhere near the top of Washington's priority list; in fact, not even on the Africa list.
"The end of the cold war produced a strategic disengagement, and Liberia is Exhibit A in terms of the consequences," said Chester A. Crocker, the Reagan administration's point man on African affairs. "There isn't a sense of strategic interest or a sense of historic responsibility that makes us take a more forceful stand."
The International Crisis Group, a research and advocacy organization, calls Liberia "the eye of the regional storm." The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Ruud Lubbers, on a swing through the region last week, called it the "epicenter" of the human crisis in West Africa. Mr. Lubbers described Liberia's predicament as an emblem of the world's inattention to the continent. "It is an icon of the problem," Mr. Lubbers said of Liberia, "the violence, the gross negligence of the international community."
The United States has been reluctant to endorse peacekeeping missions in Africa. But it has quietly supported the Sierra Leone war crimes court, which is investigating the role of the Liberian president in the conflict and suggests that it may indict him.
The United States also gives military aid to Guinea, an ally of the rebel group now gunning for control of the Liberian capital. Rebels are said to control some 60 percent of Liberian territory. Fighting continues unabated.
The Liberian war's backdrop is international neglect. The relationship between Africa and the outside world has almost always been an unhappy one. A little more than 100 years ago, in the scramble for Africa, as it was called, the European powers sat down together to bargain and parcel out the continent's riches.
Today, a mixture of self-interest and historic ties compels the British and French to re-engage in their former colonies. Perhaps they and the other traditional power in West Africa, the United States, should follow the lead of the 19th-century imperialists and sit down to bargain again. Only this time the object should not be to divide the spoils but to bring a measure of peace to this ravaged place.
The Security Council was scheduled to send a mission to the region last week, but other matters, namely the debate over sanctions on Iraq, detained them. The mission has been postponed for next month, or the month after.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Liberians by the hundreds of thousands fled to neighboring countries from a land racked by foul wars of revenge and greed. A camp near Kenema, Sierra Leone, serves these refugees from the epicenter of West African misery and neglect. (Associated Press)      

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

872 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

October 6, 1989, Friday, Final Edition

Europe's Migrants Swell Refugee Wave;
Millions Across World Are Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: Don Podesta, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A41

LENGTH: 2102 words

While the thousands of East Germans who have fled to the West have had to leave behind homes, jobs, cars and loved ones to pursue their desperate bid for a new life in the West, they can be considered fortunate among the world's millions of refugees: They are wanted.
They will automatically be received into West German society as citizens and will be aided in finding homes and work. But in refugee camps from Sudan to Hong Kong, a different drama is playing itself out.
This should have been the year some of the world's millions upon millions of displaced people could begin thinking about going home.
Wars in Angola, Afghanistan, Cambodia, Nicaragua and the Persian Gulf either wound down significantly or ended. Vietnamese, Soviet and Cuban troops involved in three of these conflicts were withdrawn. U.S. military support for Nicaraguan rebels came to an end. 
Yet there are more refugees seeking asylum than ever: By some counts there are more than 15 million people languishing in camps from Central America and the Horn of Africa to Pakistan and Thailand -- and now, also in the courtyards of West German embassies in Eastern European capitals, adding up to one of the greatest migrations of people in the world's history.
"We in the refugee field haven't seen the benefits of the end of regional conflicts," said Roger Winter, director of the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a nonprofit organization headquartered in Washington.
One exception is Namibia, where in June the first of more than 41,000 political exiles began returning home as a result of a U.S.-brokered regional peace agreement, the biggest refugee airlift ever conducted by the United Nations.
In the last decade, the world may have become inured to Third World refugees. But this year's wave of European emigres -- 100,000 Soviets, 45,000 East Germans, 300,000 Bulgarian Turks, 230,000 Poles, 20,000 Romanians -- form something that has not been seen since the great European migrations at the end of World War II.
In many ways, the sudden outpouring of East Europeans heading West serves to partly explain why reduced conflict has not led to relief for the world's refugees. If anything, the reduction of East-West tensions, which contributed to many of the regional conflicts, and the accompanying birth of more open political systems in formerly rigid dictatorships such as Poland, Hungary and the Soviet Union, have contributed to the mass movement of people as barriers to emigration have come down.
Where a few years ago the word "refugee" evoked images of an emaciated Ethiopian child seeking relief from drought and famine in a dusty desert camp, today's refugee is as likely to be seeking better economic opportunities or political liberty as fleeing war or natural disaster.
Indochina offers a particularly graphic example of how the nature of refugees and the world's response to them has changed in the past decade.
Since Communist victories in Vietnam and Cambodia in 1975, Southeast Asia has been flooded with refugees -- Cambodians fleeing the horrors of the Khmer Rouge regime and later the Vietnamese invasion, and Vietnamese "boat people."
Soon after the wave began, the countries in the region, in consultation with Western nations, adopted a "first-asylum" policy, under which no refugees fleeing communism would be turned away. The West, for its part, agreed to a massive program to resettle the refugees in other countries. Thailand, as the closest point of escape for most Indochinese refugees, bore the brunt of the first-asylum policy but also benefited from large infusions of U.N. aid and other humanitarian assistance.
About two years ago, things began to change. Western countries had taken most of the refugees they wanted to resettle -- former employees of the U.S. or South Vietnamese government, ethnic Chinese entrepreneurs, skilled professionals fleeing communism -- and they reduced their intake.
At the same time, the nature of the refugees themselves began to change. Now from Vietnam, there are fishermen and farmers who were not necessarily escaping political persecution but looking for a better life economically. An increasing number of boat people are now coming from northern Vietnam.
The Southeast Asian nations coined a term for the new reluctance by the West to continue accepting refugees: "compassion fatigue."
Faced with this change of attitude by the West, Southeast Asian nations have decided that their policy of granting first asylum has become untenable. The refugees kept coming, with a new wave beginning in 1987, but fewer and fewer were being resettled elsewhere. In the spring of 1987, Thailand became the first country to challenge the first-asylum agreement by adopting a policy to push boats laden with refugees back out to sea. Indonesia followed suit, and there are reports that Malaysia is quietly doing the same.
One result of Thailand's rolling up the welcome mat has been a marked shift in the patterns of refugee movements, with increasing numbers of boat people arriving in the British crown colony of Hong Kong and in Japan.
Britain and Vietnam have held talks on the issue of sending refugees back to Vietnam. Hanoi has refused to take back any refugee who does not volunteer to return, a position that the U.S. government has supported.
British and Thai officials have accused the United States of hypocrisy, pointing to U.S. interdiction of Haitian boat people and deportation of illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America.
"We couldn't take the moral high ground because our own skirts were dirty," said Winter, of the U.S. Committee for Refugees.
Among Japanese, unaccustomed to immigration, the surge in refugees has stirred fears that the country will be overrun. It has caused the government for the first time to adopt a screening process under which refugees with only economic motives will be repatriated.
And it has caused conflict between Vietnamese-speaking boat people and young Chinese laborers who have boarded Vietnamese boats in hopes of finding work in prosperous Japan. The two groups have clashed in overcrowded refugee centers, and Japanese officials have segregated them.
According to officials in the Japanese Foreign Ministry and the prime minister's office, 34 boatloads carrying 3,181 people reached Japan as of the end of September. Only 219 boat people came in all of 1988.
For the Vietnamese, the trip is an arduous, 2,000-mile journey risking pirates and storms on the open sea. About 80 percent of the arrivals have come to Japan on their own, with the others picked up by ships on the way.
Japan, which has accepted fewer than 7,000 Indochinese refugees since the end of the Vietnam war, has said that it will allow the total to rise to 10,000, providing the new immigrants are genuine refugees under U.N. definitions. But its processing centers, intended to offer six months of instruction in Japanese language, are suddenly woefully understaffed and crowded.
Japan is not alone in its reluctance to admit refugees from alien ethnic groups.
In the United States, "East Europeans and Soviets are on the front burner now and there is a great deal of interest in accepting them," Winter said. "But who cares about Somalis who have gone to Ethiopia?"
West Germany greets all immigrant ethnic Germans -- whether East Germans or people of German ancestry from Poland or the Soviet Union -- with up to $ 125 each in "welcome money" and low-cost loans of up to $ 5,000 per family to get started. All are eligible for normal unemployment or welfare and state-supported health insurance benefits.
If they are retired, they receive the same pension as if they had worked in West Germany all their lives; thus a Polish ethnic German who retired after working 35 years as a machinist in Poland receives the same pension as if he had worked all those years at the same job in West Germany.
But non-German asylum-seekers -- mostly Poles, Yugoslavs, Turks and Iranians -- don't enjoy those benefits. Many of them must work in black market jobs while waiting -- typically for several years -- for a decision on whether they are to be granted political asylum. Only about 9 percent ever receive asylum; the rest are classified as people merely trying to improve their economic status and technically are supposed to be expelled from the country, although in practice this does not happen often.
When international laws covering refugees were written in 1951, most of those heading for Western Europe or America were Europeans. But with modern transportation and regional wars in many parts of the Third World, refugees are traveling to the West from farther away and most of them are not white. This, in Winter's view, helps account for the West's increasing reluctance to continue accepting refugees.
"You start to get a decreasing receptivity to refugees," Winter said. "Governments are backing away from the system they created."
As a result, contributions to organizations that care for refugees, such as the International Red Cross and the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), are down, in relative terms, just when the need is greater than ever.
The U.N. deputy high commissioner for refugees, Eugene Dewey, said budgetary pressures have forced the agency to cut back on all but "survival items" for refugees. The number of exiles cared for by the agency has risen 40 percent over the past three years with victims up 700,000 in the last year alone.
But contributions are up only 17 percent since 1986, Dewey said, adding that UNHCR may face a $ 40 million deficit by the end of the year.
"We've had to retrench. We've had to cut out almost everything except survival items, care and maintenance," Dewey said. "This is tragic because it has cost us our investment programs in education and training, which have some chance of getting refugees out of this dependency syndrome."
But despite the increase in migration for economic reasons, the bulk of the world's refugees are fleeing their native lands not to search for better jobs or more money or even political freedom. Most of the 4 million refugees in Africa, the 5 million Afghans encamped in Pakistan and Iran and the hundreds of thousands of displaced Central Americans have fled for a much simpler reason: to stay alive.
Often, that is all they achieve; conditions in many camps around the world are hellish.
Camps in Malawi, South Africa and Zambia for 1 million Mozambicans fleeing the 14-year-old civil war in their country offer nightmarish scenes: children with bloated bellies and pencil-thin arms crawling through the dust in search of shade or beetles to eat, and adults wearing bark peeled from trees, clamoring around a relief plane's whirring propellers for sacks of grain tossed out the door.
Afghan refugees, who represent fully a third of their country's population, also are a third of the world's refugees. Many of them have been in camps in Pakistan and Iran for all of the 1980s.
Sanitary conditions in the camps are poor even by South Asian standards; diseases associated with malnutrition are chronic, and morale is generally low. More than 75 percent of the refugees are women and children, most of whom have not been home since leaving Afghanistan. A third of the children have been born and raised in the camps, according to the United Nations.
"The situation of the women has been particularly difficult due to the fact that Afghan culture and traditions strictly discourage contact between women and outsiders," a recent U.N. report said. "Most women have been confined . . . in their shelters with very little social contact. In many cases this has resulted in psychological depression and despair."
But the irony is that 10 years of war and international administration of the camps has led to another kind of distortion of the Afghan experience: Refugees now receive more and better services in the squalid Pakistani camps -- health, education, and food -- than they would in most areas of Afghanistan, where the war-torn countryside is generally devoid of civil administration.
Aid officials worry that they are a long way from being able to promise the refugees a better life if and when they go home.
And for many of the world's refugees, there is no guarantee that they will ever go home. Palestinian refugees now number nearly 2 million in Lebanon, Jordan and the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank, and many of these have been in camps for more than 40 years with no end to their displacement in sight.
Washington Post correspondents abroad contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, A WORLD OF REFUGEES: THE SCOPE OF THE PROBLEM, BRAD WYE

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

874 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Christian Science Monitor

September 29, 2014 Monday

Supply for refugees and their hosts; 
A Christian Science perspective.

BYLINE: Kate Ness

SECTION: The Culture

LENGTH: 662 words

There has been quite a bit of attention in the news this summer about crises caused by significant numbers of refugees and immigrants, whether they are unaccompanied children from Central America coming to the United States, families and individuals fleeing war-torn countries in the Middle East, or groups of people trying to cross the Mediterranean to Europe in hopes of having a better life than they had in Africa. Many of the news stories have discussed how the sudden influx of people strains the resources of their destination and how these countries can or should address these problems. 
In reading one of those reports recently, I thought of several quotations from Mary Baker Eddy, who discovered and founded Christian Science. In her book "Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures," she writes, "In the scientific relation of God to man, we find that whatever blesses one blesses all, as Jesus showed with the loaves and the fishes, - Spirit, not matter, being the source of supply" (p. 206). Elsewhere in the same book, she writes, "Soul has infinite resources with which to bless mankind" (p. 60). 
I love the idea that an action motivated by unselfish care for our fellow man is based on the law of divine Love, God, and therefore it is supported by this divine law. The understanding that man's source of supply is God, Spirit, Soul, must bless everyone and cannot lead to want or scarcities. When seen in the light of this law of Love, individuals or countries that choose to help refugees and immigrants cannot be punished or harmed for their charity and compassion. God meets every need of both the newcomers and their hosts, and He does not let us, His children, lack anything. When one recognizes that Spirit, or God, is infinite, it becomes clear that there cannot be any shortages or strain on resources. In economic terms, God's economy is not a "zero-sum game," in which a gain by some means a loss by others. God's infinite blessings are enough for everyone.
The Bible account of the loaves and fishes that Mrs. Eddy mentions is a perfect example of both infinite supply and infinite blessings. Jesus had spent three days out in the countryside, healing and preaching to a group of more than 4,000 people. Near the end of the third day, Jesus said to his disciples that he did not want to send the people away hungry, because they'd had nothing to eat for the past three days. His disciples were skeptical and asked how he could feed so many people when they were so far away from a town. 
Jesus' response was to ask how much food they had, which amounted to seven loaves of bread and a few small fishes. While the disciples probably saw this limited amount as barely able to feed themselves, Jesus knew that it was just a small glimpse of the infinite supply that God had prepared for them. They ended up passing the food out to the multitude, and, after everyone had eaten, they collected seven baskets full of leftovers (see Matthew 15:32-38, Mark 8:1-9). According to the biblical accounts, no one left hungry or missed out on a meal. The disciples were blessed by sharing their resources, and, in the end, they had more than they started with.
As God's children, we all have constant access to this infinite supply of resources, because God expresses His infinite goodness in man. By knowing what is spiritually true and affirming God's unlimited blessings for each of His children, we can all support the worldwide relief efforts, irrespective of where we happen to live. Mrs. Eddy writes of God, "Love is impartial and universal in its adaptation and bestowals" (Science and Health, p. 13). Everyone has endless supply, regardless of where they are or who is around them. Whether the situation requires food, as the crowd of people who were with Jesus did, or whether it requires money, employment, housing, schools, clothing, or other essentials, we can pray to understand more fully that God is tenderly and lovingly supplying all needs. 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
All Rights Reserved

881 of 996 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

December 27, 2001 Thursday  
Final Edition

Working To Better Aid African Immigrants

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 641 words

 Beatrice Narukundo hoped that she was leaving war-torn Congo and all its violence behind when she immigrated to the United States two years ago. 
 But two months after arriving, a group of teenagers rushed into her house in Hyattsville, teasing and beating her children, she said. The police came, but she spoke only French and they spoke English.  
 She said she was charged with assault and spent the night in the Prince George's County jail. 
 Narukundo, speaking in French, recounted the incident through a translator at a program on African refugees. The half-day workshop, held recently at the Charles W. Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity in Wheaton, was designed to help the nearly 100 participants who work with newcomers to better understand the struggles that immigrants face. 
 "You have to take more time to deal with an African immigrant and realize that they do not use the social skills that an American has," said Wanjiru Kamau, director of the African Immigrants and Refugees Foundation in Silver Spring, a nonprofit social services group that organized the workshop. "My emphasis in training is to try to understand the cultural differences of the person." 
 The number of African immigrants has been increasing dramatically in the Washington area as refugees flee the civil wars of their homelands. Before, most refugees had come from Southeast Asia or Latin America, according to the Maryland Office for New Americans. 
 Nearly 16.2 percent, or about 39,000, of the 240,000 immigrants who came to Washington from 1990 to 1998 hailed from African countries, according to a study by the Washington-based Brookings Institution. 
 The immigrants come from a variety of countries, including Ethiopia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Somalia, and are settling primarily in the District and Prince George's and Montgomery counties.  
The Washington region attracts the largest proportion of Africans of any major metropolitan area, according to the Brookings report. 
 Many social services providers said at the workshop that they were unprepared to handle the new arrivals, particularly because of language difficulties. 
 Patricia Chiancone, who works with English for Speakers of Other Languages students at Northwestern High School in Prince George's, said teachers do not have simple statistics on the number of African students. 
 She said that students from Africa are classified in the computer system as African American. "They get lumped together," she said. 
 Francis Govan, a community outreach specialist for Montgomery County, said that tensions may arise between Africans and African Americans because of misunderstandings.  
African Americans may have misconceptions about the new immigrants because of stereotypes about Africa. 
 "These communities have not really communicated with each other," Govan said. 
 Other problems were identified: Many immigrants, including children, suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder because of the violence they have witnessed. Women do not know that they can and should report domestic violence, even if they do not speak English. Parents are not familiar with the school system. 
 Participants said many of the concerns could be addressed by pooling together resources and networking. 
 Others can be solved by educating people about cultural differences.  
Kamau said that, for example, some teachers have misunderstood African students because the students do not look them in the eye. The teachers think that the students are being rude, when actually they are being polite, according to their culture. 
 Kamau said she hopes to hold more workshops to help both social workers and immigrants. 
 "Once you understand this person, you'll be able to to help them," Kamau said of social workers.  
And, she added, "Africans need the training to understand the American culture so they can survive." 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The Washington Post

901 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Famine Looms: United States Announces Food Aid for South Sudan

LENGTH: 535  words

Washington, D.C.: Bread for the World has issued the following news release:
There has been a lot of bad news in the world lately.  Though it is not always reported, many of the grimmest stories also involve hunger. 
The innocent in Iraq evade death on mountaintops where the lucky find food aid dropped from the sky. Elsewhere in the Middle East, families huddle together in refugee camps and pray for peace. Children who flee poverty and violence in Central America arrive at our southern border hungry and traumatized. And in South Sudan, where the atrocities of civil conflict drive families from their homes, hunger is about to get worse.
Famine - a human-made obscenity - looms over the landlocked country of South Sudan in northeastern Africa. The world's newest country, South Sudan gained its independence from Sudan in 2011 but internal conflict has led to widespread food-insecurity. The United Nations is already struggling to feed an estimated 100,000 civilians. Sixteen-year old Nyiel Kutch, her mother, and five siblings made it to a Ugandan refugee camp in December of last year. She told The Guardian, "The place here is good, but the food is not enough for us."
A hunger crisis becomes famine when four out of every 10,000 children die every day. Experts predict that South Sudan will qualify as early as December. Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, told Reuters that 50,000 children under age five were at risk of dying of malnutrition in the coming months.
Yesterday, the United States announced it will send $180 million in emergency food aid to address the crisis. The funds will be distributed from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust. The trust is a food reserve set aside and administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to respond to unexpected food crises in developing countries.
Your advocacy efforts in the past are helping to feed hungry people in South Sudan today. Bread for the World was instrumental in the expansion and restructuring of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust as part of the organization's 1998 Offering of Letters campaign, Africa: Seeds of Hope. Advocacy work started even earlier - 1977 and 1978 - when Bread activists began lobbying their members of Congress to establish the legislation.
In front of us is yet another opportunity that will pay dividends in the future. Changes in U.S. food aid policy can build resilience against future catastrophes. Food aid that takes into account the quality of food and not just quantity can stem the tide of needless deaths from malnutrition. The future of food aid is the Food for Peace Reform Act (S. 2421).
We can unlock food aid from archaic policy. By increasing program efficiency, flexibility, and improving the nutritional value of food aid, we can help 9 million more people - people like 16-year Nyiel Kutch - who deserve a future free of hunger.
While the news today may be overwhelming, as people of faith called to end hunger and love our neighbors. We must rise to the challenge and act for tomorrow. Urge your senators to cosponsor the Food for Peace Reform Act.
For more information please visit: http://www.bread.org

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

902 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 30, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Index;
International

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

Zulu leader for South Africa's blacks walks a tightrope 1
Wave of arrests begins in Haiti 3
Big Liverpool demonstration pro- tests unemployment 4
Increase in crime strains re- sources of Ireland's police 5
Around the World 6
 
Danish port f inds a way to end youth unemp loyment 8
Japanese transport union plans South Korea trade ban 9
Chinese court ends hearings on at- tempt against Mao 10
Philippines reports progress in curbing population growth 11
Senator Percy leaves Moscow, looks to early arms talks 13
Uruguayans vote today in a con- stitutional plebiscite 14
Right-wing offensive reported in Central America 20
Iraq reverts to ''business as usual'' at home 22
 
Government/Politics
U.S. to resume nationwide effort to resettle Cuban refugees 24
Official sees U.S. refugee prob- lems shifting to Caribbean 25
Ousted Congressmen to get large retirement benefits 31
Reagan 'Kitchen Cabinet' Strengthens Its Influence 36
Independents emerge as most im- portant power bloc in Texas 36
Reagan benefitted greatly from ''independent'' donations 39
Votes in Congress 52
D'Amato plans a ''sensitive'' visit to a Belfast jail 53
Yonkers faces layoffs despite a $1 million budget surplus 59
L.A. prepares 2 lawsuits as coast water battle return to court 63
 
General
Around the Nation 26
Morman Church plan to evict ten- ants causes controversy 26
Farmers in San Francisco Bay area fight off development 26
An official investigation is begun into a missing freighter 27
Appeals court upsets ruling on teles cope evidence 41
Detectives press hunt for killers of Newark police officer 42
 
Health/Science
Select panel urges Congress to in- crease aid for child health care 35
Tests may clear up controversy surrounding laetrile 45
Gene research seen leading to synthetic vaccines 74
 
Industry/Labor
Businesses pressure J.P. Stevens for a good union contract 68
 
Education/Welfare
Neediest Cases Fund begins its 69th annual appeal 50
 
Arts/Entertainment
Harry Streep 3d dances 77
Jamaican 78nce troupe performs 78
Japan treasure house thronged 80
 
Style
With Christmas catalogues, any- thing can be ordered by mail 84
 
Obituaries
Father Henry J. Browne, activist priest on West Side 44

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company

904 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 21, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Refugees and the Scourge of Indifference

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A31

LENGTH: 818 words

Man has created hell on earth on the borders of Rwanda. The refugees arrive there in ever mounting numbers, flashing horrors that seem beyond human reach and comprehension onto the globe's conscience via the television screen.
Their families and possessions scattered like leaves scudding before a mighty wind of death and destruction, Rwanda's refugees daily raise the international community's threshold for human disaster.
The images of their suffering have become unbearable. Yet each day we bear more: Each day, we tolerate anew the refugees' loss of humanity as they endure conditions that animals would rebel against. Each day the gap between what the world's electronically informed communities witness and feel and what they can reasonably do about those feelings grows larger. 
And it is not just Rwanda, and not just Africa. Human flight in extremis is reshaping politics and diplomacy across the earth. Modern communications make the refugee an important new catalyst in global politics.
In the Americas, refugees from Haiti are driving Bill Clinton toward risking his presidency on a military intervention in that Caribbean island. In Europe, the specter of refugees created by ethnic cleansing in the wars of ex-Yugoslavia shames a prosperous, powerful continent.
Russian politicians say their experiment in democracy is hostage to the fate of 25 million Russian expatriates living in the "near abroad," the former Soviet republics on Russia's borders. A mass migration of these expatriates into Russia as refugees would strengthen the hand of Moscow's extreme nationalists. Elsewhere in Asia tick the unfinished catastrophes of the Kurds and Shiites in Iraq, of continuing upheaval in Cambodia and Burma, and the threat of future refugee disasters in a China riven by economic and political pressures.
"We always thought the industrial democracies of the North would be able to deal with the upheaval and poverty of the South in a coordinated fashion," says a French diplomat who has unsuccessfully sought greater American help for the problems of Rwanda, Algeria and other African countries. "But instead of a North-South model, each power has its own 'South' to deal with. And each of us is doing as poorly as the other."
The end of the Cold War turns the world's powers to the accumulated problems of their own neighborhoods. But the end of superpower conflict has also fragmented international cooperation. The problems posed by massive refugee flights are the problems of life itself: of shelter, food, disease and protection from becoming prey. They are biblical problems, in their grand scope and direct nature, unlike the ideological or political problems familiar to governments.
These mass refugee crises are difficult for politicians and generals to handle. The regional powers want to pass off their own piece of the South to others as quickly as possible. As a price for going there, the French want the United Nations to come in and take Rwanda off their hands.
The Clinton administration, standing two centuries of the Monroe Doctrine on its head, says it will invade Haiti only if outsiders, in the form of the United Nations, will take over responsibility for that U.S. neighbor immediately after the U.S. assault.
The refugees shame us all. But they do not threaten countries or different regions equally. Their flights into neighboring areas create pressures for half-way, self-centered intervention to help reduce human misery temporarily, move the problem down the agenda and off television screens. It is a kind of yuppie interventionism.
Such limited goals made sense for the French in Rwanda, where the French are not expected to do more than apply a Band-Aid to a giant crisis and move on. Rwanda is a global problem, in scale and immediacy. It requires a global response.
Haiti is different. It is an American problem. If America is to intervene there, it should not do so in a half-hearted way expecting others to sweep up after Uncle Sam in his own neighborhood.
A military intervention triggered by political reactions to refugees can be treated no less seriously than a military intervention triggered by a threat to oil reserves or other vital interests. If Haiti is not a problem worth fixing with a sustained U.S. military presence, it is not a problem worth an invasion.
The world's refugees deserve sympathy, help and a chance at survival. They deserve an immediate, caring and effective response from the international community. But the world's governments, led by the only remaining superpower, need to craft new, consistent and coordinated policies to head off the disasters that create the human hells of Rwanda and Haiti.
If they do not, those governments must be ready to see these disasters through when they do occur. Otherwise, there will be five horsemen of the Apocalypse: War, Disease, Famine, Death and Indifference.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

905 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

May 29, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

The New Europeans

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 530 words

MIGRATION is becoming one of the great forces changing the world's politics, and nowhere more dramatically than in Europe. For a generation after World War II, western Europe was largely segregated from the populations to its east and south by the Iron Curtain and the Mediterranean. In the 1990s, an era of cheap travel and relaxed border controls, millions of people are on the move, drawn by prosperity and pushed by fear and war at home. Many Europeans, in reaction to this new pressure, feel beleaguered. It's reflected in the way they think about the world, and the way they vote. 
In Germany, one out of every 12 residents is not a citizen. That's almost twice the proportion here in the United States -- although it's the United States that traditionally welcomes immigrants and Germany that traditionally does not. Some of the non-citizens in Germany have been there for a long time, like the Turkish workers who arrived in the 1960s. But there are also nearly 400,000 refugees from ex-Yugoslavia. Austria is carrying, in relation to its size, an even heavier burden of Yugoslav refugees.
Poland is accustomed to thinking of itself as a poor country. Long before its Communist regime fell it allowed Poles to travel westward, generally as peddlers or day laborers, generally working illegally. But now Poland has become aware of peddlers and day laborers filtering across its own eastern border, especially from the economic disaster in Ukraine. With mixed feelings, Poles have begun to realize that by the standards of much of the rest of the world, their country is a model of prosperity and a desirable destination.
France in particular is feeling the effects of long economic stagnation throughout North Africa, and the sharpening tension between the government and Muslim fundamentalists in Algeria. But asylum-seekers from sub-Saharan Africa tend to go to Germany, perhaps because of the generous social benefits there.
One consequence of the civil wars and tribal rivalries in Africa, little noticed here in the United States, is the steady drift of refugees northward. For those who can get a plane ticket, even a wretched life on the streets of a European city selling trinkets to tourists may be preferable to conditions at home.
Since the African and Asian newcomers have darker skins than the Europeans, resentment of them is often couched in explicitly racist terms. And since the respectable political parties will have nothing to do with racism, the subject of population movements is often left to the less-than-respectable. The results are clearest in Germany, where immigration is heaviest. But similar rumbling is audible in every European country. Even law-abiding people of the most humane instincts find this rapid inflow of strangers to be troubling -- a drain on public budgets and a threat to the customs of communities far more accustomed to homogeneity than, say, most of their counterparts in the United States.
The pressures of migration keep rising around the world. Dealing with them fairly and decently is close to the top of the list of urgent necessities that, in the 1990s, are taking Europe's politicians by surprise.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

908 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 25, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Zaire Chaos Stuns Americans;
Airman Says Comrades Did Not Foresee Vast Scope of Refugees' Needs

Steve Vogel, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: GOMA, Zaire, July 24, 1994

Staff Sgt. A.J. Smiley waved an American flag from the U.S. Air Force C-141 StarLifter cargo plane as it taxied down the runway today after landing.
The message -- that the vanguard of a U.S. relief force was arriving -- appeared lost on the Rwandan refugees living and dying around this Zairian city, however.
On the streets of Goma and in the surrounding countryside, dense with human beings dying by the thousands, exhausted refugees stared vacantly as U.S. military vehicles went by. 
The scope of the disaster awed the men arriving with the airlift.
"I don't think they've anticipated how big this will need to be," said an Air Force sergeant. "I don't think anyone has a handle on what it's going to take to get the job done."
Officers leading a military assessment team from the U.S. European Command headquarters in Germany have been shaken by the magnitude and remorselessness of the suffering here.
Smiley's StarLifter faced problems even before it landed at Goma. Hundreds of people lined the runway and some darted across it, alarming crew members as they made their final approach.
Touching ground, the big jet bounded about on the uneven runway. "That's what's known as a sporting landing," said Staff Sgt. Bernie van Dauber, the flight engineer.
Then Zairian authorities had some news.
"A $ 150 landing fee -- in cash," a crew member said. "Can you believe that?"
Smiley, a loadmaster on the C-141, said onlookers probably were disappointed when they saw that the plane's cargo was an all-terrain forklift. "I'm sure they're expecting food and water," he said.
Until the arrival of the forklift, though, workers at Goma had been unloading planes by hand -- a slow process that kept the small airport clogged with supplies and machines. A second StarLifter, carrying water purification equipment, was diverted this afternoon because of the crowded conditions.
So, delivery of machinery like the forklift has priority.
"It doesn't do you any good to get aid down there if you can't off-load it," said Col. Ed McPhillips, an Air Force officer at the U.S. staging area in Frankfurt. "You can get food down there, but how do you distribute it and avoid being a magnet where people come together and catch disease? You've got to get the basic infrastructure in there first."
With public attention being drawn to the fledgling American effort, U.S. officers said they are sensitive about offending the French troops and humanitarian agencies already deeply involved.
"Their effort has been heroic from the start, and we're just trying to fit into their infrastructure," said Marine Col. Alan Davis, commander of the assessment team. "To sit back and have all the focus on the U.S. is not fair."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, RWANDAN REFUGEE FUNERAL PROCESSION HEADS AWAY FROM GOMA AIRPORT SOON AFTER ARRIVAL OF U.S. C-141 CARGO PLANE. REUTER

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

914 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 28, 2017 Saturday

Washington: Trump's Ban of Refugees Weakens Democracy and Threatens America's Global Leadership Role

LENGTH: 240  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Public Citizen has issued the following news release: 

  

  Shame on Donald Trump. And shame on any member of Congress who does not speak up and take immediate action to overturn Trump's outrageous executive order reportedly limiting entry of immigrants from a number of Muslim and African countries into the United States. 


 

 Donald Trump - whose mother was born in Scotland, whose father's parents were born in Germany and whose wife was born in Slovenia - today betrays our nation's shared history and shared values. There would be no America without immigration, and there would be no recognizable America without freedom of religion. Yet today, Donald Trump enacts one of the harshest anti-immigrant actions in our nation's history and not-so-covertly enacts a religious test for entry into the United States.

 

 This measure serves no security interest of the United States, and in fact will only serve to fuel anger against the United States. Worse, it bars entry of refugees from countries undergoing humanitarian crises. The United States should be expanding, not prohibiting, permitted immigration from these nations.

 

 The fact that Donald Trump is delivering on a campaign promise should not lessen anyone's shock and outrage at this action. It is a stain on our nation, and will remain so until reversed.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

918 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

May 20, 2010 Thursday

Black roots music takes center stage at Living Traditions Festival

BYLINE: By David Burger The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: FRIDAY MIX; Entertainment; Features

LENGTH: 722 words

The Salt Lake City Arts Council's 25th Living Traditions Festival annually spotlights Utah's traditional folk and ethnic arts, with a festival lineup that also includes nationally touring acts.
This year's headliners include the Carolina Chocolate Drops and Sierra Leone Refugee All Stars, each performing black roots music drawing upon musical influences that can be traced back to western Africa.
"I want to make sure they come from a tradition," said Casey Jarman, festival director, about the touring bands who play at Living Traditions. "It's a good tool for presenting an art form we don't have here." 
At first glance, the bands don't appear to have much in common.
The Carolina Chocolate Drops were formed in 2005 following three young musicians' attendance at the Black Banjo Gathering in Boone, N.C. Dom Flemons, Rhiannon Giddens and Justin Robinson were all in their 20s when the group formed, and each sings and plays different instruments. But the banjo united them, Flemons said.
That's in contrast with the founding story of the Sierra Leone Refugee All Stars. The band was formed by refugees displaced to Guinea during the Sierra Leone Civil War that raged from 1991 to 2002, killing tens of thousands and displacing more than 2 million people.
Seven musicians who met in the camps banded together. An influential 2005 documentary told their story, following the musicians for three years as they moved between various camps. The film ends with their return home, where the group recorded its first studio album, "Living Like a Refugee."
Now the band tours the world to entertain, of course, but also to raise awareness of systemic problems that plague their continent.
Bluegrass played with the banjo usually conjures images of older white men singing "high and lonesome," but banjos first came to North America on slave ships. In its modern form, the banjo was adapted from several traditional African instruments, and many scholars believe the name of the instrument comes from the Kimbundu term mbanza .
Over the years, the banjo was adopted by white musicians, drawn to the way the versatile instrument could be used for the fast arpeggiated plucking that serves as one of the foundations of Appalachian and Midwestern bluegrass tunes.
In recent years, fewer black bands have used the banjo. The instrument has a lot of baggage, Flemons said, "particularly with blacks in the older generation."
He and his bandmates weren't intending to reclaim the instrument for black musicians, even if that might have happened through their music. Instead, the trio began backing back old-time fiddler Joe Thompson. From him, the young musicians learned traditional folk songs of the Piedmont region of North and South Carolina, and then expanded their repertoire to also play bluegrassy versions of hip-hop songs.
The slaves who brought banjo-like instruments to America came from western Africa. That's where the musicians who formed the Refugee All Stars were raised, growing up influenced by their homeland's musical heritage.
Black Nature is the rapper of the group. He found himself in a refugee camp after being orphaned at an early age: His parents were killed in his country's civil war.
"It's a really, really beautiful country full of talented people, peaceful people," Nature said from his new home in San Francisco about his native land. "It's a rich country, culturally. ... Sierra Leone is getting back to where it was."
The group released its latest album, "Rise & Shine," in late March. The music was recorded in Sierra Leone and New Orleans, where the food and climate reminded Nature of his homeland.
For Utah music fans, the thread of a common heritage ties the two groups' music together, in the same way the annual Living Traditions Festival seeks to bind us all by celebrating cultural traditions.
dburger@sltrib.com Alt Heads:
Black roots music takes center stage at Living Traditions Festival Living Traditions Festival
The festival returns for a 25th year.
When  Friday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Saturday, noon to 10 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 7 p.m.
Where  Washington Square, Salt Lake City & County Building, 450 S. 200 East
Tickets  Free
Acts  Sierra Leone All Stars (Saturday at 7 p.m., North Stage), Carolina Chocolate Drops (Sunday at 5:30 p.m., North Stage), and others
Complete schedule info  www.slcgov.com/arts/livingtraditions 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The band Carolina Chocolate Drops.
The Sierra Leone All Stars.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

923 of 996 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 8, 2016 Monday

Failure to adequately address mass refugee migrations is the real crisis' immigration experts say

LENGTH: 658  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Chicago: American Bar Association has issued the following news release

  

 As Europe struggles with the crisis related to the surge of refugees from the Middle East and Africa, and the United States considers the extent to which it will take some in, the U.S. is confronted with a refugee crisis on its own southern border where more than 120,000 Central American children and parents have fled the violence in their home countries. 

 There is a lack of leadership in the efforts to handle the mass refugee migrations to Europe and the U.S.,, said immigration experts during the American Bar Association 2016 Annual Meeting panel discussion: "Refugee Crisis:  Challenges in Europe and at the U.S. Border," sponsored by the ABA Section of Civil Rights and Social Justice.

 

 "The crisis I believe we are facing on this issue right now is not the crisis about the refugees," said Elisa Massimino, president and CEO of Human Rights First. "It is the crisis about the way governments are failing to live up to their obligations and do what they committed to do on the intervention and status of refugees and protect people who can no longer count on their own governments to protect them that is the real crisis."

 

 The panelists, who compared the European and U.S. approaches on mass migration of refugees, agreed that neither was adequate for the unique circumstances faced by the refugees and their vulnerabilities under the law.

 

 "The word refugee gets thrown around a lot, and it is really a legal term, in our law and under international law," said Massimino. "Not everyone fleeing a difficult situation or looking for a better life has the same call under international law as a refugee does. A refugee is a person who has a well-founded fear of persecution on one of five grounds: race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership to a particular group."

 

 Refugees have special privileges under international law compared to some other immigrants, added Thomas Alexander Aleinikoff, visiting professor of law at Columbia Law School and former United Nations high commissioner for refugees in Geneva. However, countries fail to fulfill their obligations under those international agreements, he said.

 

 Aleinikoff noted that Syria's neighboring countries--Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and Iraq--have provided refuge to those seeking protection from violence, and have not subjected them to the scrutiny that they have faced in Europe and the U.S.

 

 In the U.S., the government has adopted policies of deterrence, and refugees are detained in prison-like facilities, said Holly Cooper, director of the Immigration Law Clinic at the University of California at Davis School of Law. In Europe, according to Cooper, refugees experience a "more humanitarian" approach, living in open campsites on the Greek coast while awaiting admission.

 

 In both cases, the lack of leadership and policies from local authorities to deal with the refugee crisis prevent refugees from securing adequate legal counsel and representation.

 

 This is a global crisis that "can't be solved by any one country," Massimino said. "But there is one country with the resources, standing and leadership to put forth such a plan, and that country is ours."

 

 A fundamental right to seek protection at the border is not an illegal act, said Katharina Obser, a migrant rights and justice program officer with the Women's Refugee Commission.

 

 "One thing that has been said a lot, in the U.S. context in particular, is this implication that people who are arriving at the southern border and seeking asylum are crossing illegally," said Obser. "When in fact it is someone's right to seek protection at the border, and the country whose protection they are seeking to respond with a fair, humane and just process. This applies for Europe and all countries in the world."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

935 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 9, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Playing Into Castro's Hands

Jay Taylor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 841 words

Of all the ironies in American foreign policy today, our course on Cuba is the most paradoxical. Sharply deteriorating economic conditions have caused a surge in the number of Cubans fleeing illegally to the United States. We do everything we can unilaterally to worsen the economy and thus increase the flow. We also directly encourage the exodus by granting Cubans who arrive illegally or who are headed this way on the high seas resident status and resettlement assistance. At the same time, we have unfilled immigration and political refugee quotas for Cubans who wish to immigrate legally to the United States.
Even more incongruous is the scene at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, where each year tens of thousands of Cubans are refused visitors' visas to America. There is a high rate of turn-downs because it is apparent that most of the applicants are not bona-fide tourists: Their real intention is to remain in the United States. These disappointed visa seekers -- or, for that matter, any Cubans who by hook or by crook can get to Florida -- are automatically paroled into the country. A few who have hijacked vessels or airplanes to get here have been tried in U.S. courts, but, not surprisingly, none has been convicted. 
When Fidel Castro tries to stop unhappy Cubans from fleeing his benighted land, we accuse him of human rights abuse. But when he threatens to open the floodgates if we continue to welcome unlimited numbers of undocumented Cubans, including those who have committed violent acts in the course of their departure, we warn of unspecified but ominous consequences. In 1980, when we tangled with him on the issue of refugees, he took us to the cleaners, dumping on Florida 120,000 Cubans he did not want -- a combination of those most unhappy with the regime and thousands of prison and asylum inmates.
Should Castro declare another Mariel, it is not clear what chains we have left to pull. We already have a full trade embargo except for "adequate telecommunications" and humanitarian gifts. There would seem to be no way under international law or politically within the United States to justify military action against Cuba in such a situation. Latin America and most of the rest of the world would almost certainly be appalled if we did any such thing. If we closed down our office in Havana, we would be cutting off the flow of legal immigration.
By stopping the travel of Cuban Americans to the island and the sending of remittances, we could cut off an important source of foreign exchange for Castro. But after a round of such reprisals, Florida would probably have sustained more long-term damage than Cuba, and Castro could be perceived at home and abroad as having again taken our pants.
Of course, things are much worse in Cuba today than in 1980. Thus another Mariel could get out of hand and lead to widespread unrest. This is presumably what some people in Miami are hoping for. But events of the past few days have shown not only that there is great discontent in Cuba but also that Castro is determined to resist any effort to unseat him. Furthermore, it is apparent that he still has a disciplined military and police force, as well as a core of support in the population -- perhaps 20 to 30 percent. It is also useful to remember that Castro, unlike Nicolae Ceausescu, Raoul Cedras or even Kim Il Sung, has strong nationalist credentials. He is probably more popular now in South Africa and Mexico than in Cuba, but his historical authority is still an asset in holding on.
In a purely rational world, we would end the refugee imbroglio by taking the necessary legislative steps to terminate the incongruous policy of granting residence status to almost any undocumented Cuban who arrives illegally. Given the political realities, this is not likely to happen in the near future. The administration, however, would be able to bear the domestic cost of seeking to negotiate with the Cuban government a new and extensive refugee program, with processing in Cuba by U.S. immigration officers. Some Miami leaders might even support such an approach. Under this arrangement, most Cuban rafters and other illegals would still be paroled into the United States, but we would deny parole to those who committed violent crimes or who skyjacked in the course of their departure.
Castro would probably be willing to carry out such an accord, as he has since 1987 with the Mariel Migration Agreement, which included a procedure for interviewing current and past political prisoners for refugee status in the United States.
More fundamentally, Washington should begin a serious policy review on Cuba. The principal question is whether our unilateral efforts to make the economic situation in Cuba as bad as possible are significantly weakening Castro or instead are increasing the flow of refugees, allowing Castro to blame Cuba's problems on Washington and Miami and enhancing the comandante's image.
The writer was chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana from 1987 to 1990.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

937 of 996 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 17, 2015 Thursday

Charities urge U.S. to open its doors; 
Taking tens of thousands of Syrian refugees would be a bolder step, they say

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 737 words

ABSTRACT
Major charitable aid groups, seeing disarray in Europe's response to the refugee crisis, urged the Obama administration to accept many thousands. 

FULL TEXT
Executives from leading American aid groups, watching the muddled international response to the migrant crisis with dismay, have called on the United States government to multiply many times over its recent commitment to take 10,000 displaced Syrians in the next year.
''I think if the United States came out and said we would take 100,000, that would change things,'' said Carolyn Miles, president and chief executive of Save the Children, in a telephone news conference on Tuesday with colleagues from groups including Mercy Corps, Oxfam America, CARE U.S.A. and Physicians for Human Rights. 
Paul O'Brien, a vice president for policy and campaigns at Oxfam, said, ''This is fast becoming a legacy issue for the Obama administration, and they are not doing enough.''
Mr. O'Brien drew a numerical comparison to Lebanon, where by some calculations a quarter of the population is now made up of Syrians who have fled their country. The war, which has lasted four and a half years, has sent roughly four million Syrians into neighboring countries - and now increasingly to Europe. Half of them are younger than 18.
If the United States followed Lebanon, Mr. O'Brien said, ''we could absorb the entire population of Syria three times over.''
The Obama administration is under intense pressure to play a more assertive role in resettling families displaced by Middle East mayhem, many of them from Syria.
The crush has threatened to overwhelm Europe's abilities, and governments of the European Union are engulfed in fractious disputes over how to proceed.
Last week administration officials said the United States would increase the number of Syrian refugees it accepts to 10,000 in the fiscal year beginning in October from fewer than 2,000 this year. That is still a small fraction of the hundreds of thousands seeking asylum in Europe. Germany alone has said it expects 800,000 this year.
The Obama administration's announcement caused a range of reactions in the United States, reflecting how the refugee issue has become part of a broader politically polarized debate on immigrants and entanglements in foreign conflicts.
Advocates for refugees said it was an absurdly small increase compared with the large numbers of Vietnamese and Cubans that the United States resettled in decades past.
Others have expressed concerns over inadvertently allowing Islamic extremists or others with malevolent intent to enter via a Syrian refugee surge.
The charity executives rejected those concerns, pointing to the stringent vetting required for admittance to the United States.
Andrea Koppel, vice president of global engagement and policy at Mercy Corps, said it was only a matter of time before desperate refugees fleeing turmoil in the Middle East, North Africa and Afghanistan found ways to reach the United States.
''The fact is this is a geopolitical crisis,'' she said. ''Our plea to the American public is: 'Let's not wait. Let's open our doors.'''
Rather than admitting 10,000 Syrians, she said, ''it should be tens upon tens of thousands.''
Donna McKay, executive director of Physicians for Human Rights, said: ''The crisis we're facing is not one in which we're lacking information. It's about political will and failure to act.''
Nick Osborne, vice president for international programs at CARE U.S.A., said it was ''important to look beyond the numbers'' of displaced people now leaving their ravaged homelands at an ever-increasing pace.
''These are people who have come from middle-class families,'' he said. ''These are people who could be contributors.''
Suzanne Akhras, founder and director of the Syrian Community Network, which has been helping resettle displaced Syrians in the Chicago area, also played down concerns about refugees.
''These are not people who are going to be extremists,'' she said. ''They want to come here for a better life.''
The executives also said they had seen huge increases in financial donations in the nearly two weeks since the photograph of Aylan Kurdi, a drowned 3-year-old Syrian boy on a Turkish beach, commandeered much of the world's attention.
Ms. Miles, of Save the Children, said that in the first eight months of 2015, her organization had raised $200,000 for its Syria work, but that ''in the last few weeks, we've raised $1 million.''

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

939 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

June 20, 2018 Wednesday 11:02 EST 

A Play About Refugee Camps Is Coming. With Refugees in the Cast.

BYLINE: Andrew R. Chow

SECTION: THEATER

LENGTH: 366 words


HIGHLIGHT: "The Jungle" was written by two British playwrights who spent time at a refugee camp in France, and the cast includes refugees who lived there.

As debates about the treatment of migrant families rage in the United States, a play coming to New York hopes to illuminate the plight of refugees across the Atlantic.
"The Jungle," a play by two men who spent time in a camp in Northern France with refugees from Africa and the Middle East, will arrive at St. Ann's Warehouse on Dec. 4. The show received rave reviews when it ran in London last December. 
The play was written by Joe Murphy and Joe Robertson, two Englishmen who traveled to the Calais Jungle, a tattered French migrant camp, to help its residents. They lived there and raised money to start a theater in a geodesic dome tent, which they named Good Chance. The theater hosted performances in music, kung fu and dance before it was forcibly taken down by the French authorities in March 2016.
The pair turned their experiences into "The Jungle," which ran at the Young Vic with a cast that included three former camp residents. The show depicts a grim and chaotic year at the camp and explores whether volunteer intervention actually made a positive impact. "This devastating, uplifting show is beady-eyed even as it celebrates the human capacity to build something out of nothing," The Guardian said in its review.
Stephen Daldry and Justin Martin will stay on to direct the play in New York. And the cast will include actors from Afghanistan, Lebanon, Morocco, Sudan and Syria; several former refugees from the Calais Jungle will perform, including the drummer and singer Mohamed Sarrar.
The cast's diverse background means that the production will have to go to extra lengths to get its performers to New York, in part because of travel bans instituted by the Trump administration.
"We are in visa process now, which, in the current environment, is obviously challenging," Susan Feldman, the artistic director of St. Ann's Warehouse, said in a statement. "But we're up to the challenge; it's one of the reasons it's important to bring this work to America."
Tickets go on sale July 25.
PHOTO: John Pfumojena, center, in "The Jungle" at the Young Vic in London in 2017. (PHOTOGRAPH BY David Sandison FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles

	The Journey From the Calais Jungle to the London Stage

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

940 of 996 DOCUMENTS


thespec.com

February 12, 2017 Sunday

RCMP say 21 people seeking refugee status arrested for crossing Manitoba border

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 584 words

EMERSON, Man. - The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this weekend near a Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers - the latest to arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.
RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Man., late Friday and early Saturday. 
"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.
"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he added.
Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.
No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on their status.
An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.
RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide specific numbers.
The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.
Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.
That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.
"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she said.
The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP officers already waiting to take them into custody.
"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul Viau told The Canadian Press.
Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.
Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.
The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee claim.
Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the border at Emerson.
Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.
He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.
He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family, though.
"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks in," Janzen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

941 of 996 DOCUMENTS


thespec.com

February 12, 2017 Sunday

RCMP say 21 people seeking refugee status arrested for crossing Manitoba border

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 584 words

EMERSON, Man. - The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this weekend near a Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers - the latest to arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.
RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Man., late Friday and early Saturday. 
"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.
"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he added.
Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.
No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on their status.
An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.
RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide specific numbers.
The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.
Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.
That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.
"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she said.
The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP officers already waiting to take them into custody.
"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul Viau told The Canadian Press.
Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.
Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.
The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee claim.
Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the border at Emerson.
Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.
He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.
He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family, though.
"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks in," Janzen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

942 of 996 DOCUMENTS


thespec.com

February 12, 2017 Sunday

RCMP say 21 people seeking refugee status arrested for crossing Manitoba border

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 585 words

EMERSON, Man. - The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this weekend near a Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers - the latest to arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.
RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Manitoba, late Friday and early Saturday. 
"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.
"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he added.
Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.
No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on their status.
An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.
RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide specific numbers.
The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.
Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.
That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.
"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she said.
The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP officers already waiting to take them into custody.
"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul Viau told The Canadian Press.
Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.
Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.
The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee claim.
Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the border at Emerson.
Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.
He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.
He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family, though.
"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks in," Janzen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
All Rights Reserved

943 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

January 29, 2017 Sunday

Can Trump legally block new refugees?; 
President Trump suspended the U.S. refugee program for 120 days, banned immigrants from seven Muslim nations for 90 days and ordered his administration to develop "extreme vetting" measures for immigrants from those countries to keep "radical Islamic terrorists" out of the U.S. The order, signed Friday, bars all Syrians from entering the U.S., and gives preference in admission to Christians.

BYLINE: Oren Dorell and Alan Gomez l USA TODAY

SECTION: ; Pg. Z2

LENGTH: 728 words

Syrian Saturday children . President play Trump in the snow has issued in the a Deir temporary Zeinoun ban refugee on all camp immigrants in eastern from Lebanon Syria. on
QWhat's the difference between immigrants and refugees?
Immigrants come from other countries to the U.S. for a variety of personal reasons, such as seeking a better life. Refugees are a special class of immigrants who seek asylum from war, persecution and other risks to their safety. They have protected status under international law.
QWho are the refugees admitted to the U.S. in 2016? 
Most of the 85,000 refugees admitted in 2016 came from countries that are at war or under the control of repressive governments. Top admissions from Africa came from the war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo (16,370) and Somalia (9,020). From East Asia, most came from Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, (12,347). The greatest number of Europeans came from Ukraine (2,543), which is at war with Russian-backed irregular troops in the east. Colombians
(529) fleeing an insurgency topped the list from South America, and Syrians (12,587) and Iraqis (9,880) fleeing civil war and terrorist groups topped the list from the Near East and South Asia.
QHow many refugees has the U.S. admitted in the past?
Total U.S. refugee admissions have dropped steadily from 146,158 in 1975, when 135,000 came from Asia, according to the State Department.
QDoes Trump have the legal authority to block refugees and other immigrants?
He might on security grounds. A president has the power to shut down the refugee program without approval from Congress. Federal law allows the president to bar entry to any immigrant "or any class" of immigrants if he deems them "detrimental to the interests of the United States," and to "impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate," according to the law.
QHow many immigrants does the U.S. admit, and how many from the seven countries on Trump's list?
The State Department issued 617,752 immigrant visas and 10,891,745 non-immigrant (tourist and worker) visas in 2016. One out of 20 immigrant visas - roughly 30,000 - went to people from the seven majority Muslim countries cited by the president: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen.
QWhy did he single out those seven countries?
Three of them - Iran, Sudan and Syria - comprise the State Department's list of state sponsors of terrorism. The other four - Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Yemen - are designated "terrorist safe havens" by the State Department.
QHave any refugees from those countries recently committed terrorist acts in the U.S.?
No. The two major U.S. terrorist attacks that occurred in 2015 and 2016 involved people with ties to countries not on that list: Omar Mateen, who killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando last June, was a U.S.-born Afghan-American who'd traveled to Saudi Arabia in recent years. And Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik, the married couple who killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., on Dec. 2, 2015, also had no ties to those seven countries. Farook was born in the U.S. to Pakistani immigrants, and his wife was a recent arrival from Saudi Arabia, which Farook had visited.
QHow are refugees now vetted?
The State Department says it has the most exhaustive background system in the world. Refugees are first interviewed in their home countries and their backgrounds are checked carefully during a process that can take up to two years. Some refugees worked for the U.S. military in Iraq as translators or in other jobs and are seeking asylum for fears of being singled out for their association with the U.S. government.
QWhy a total ban on Syrians?
Syria is a concern because the Islamic State militant group that is behind terrorist acts around the world still operates in the country. About 11 million Syrians - half of the population - have been displaced.
QWho are the Syrians admitted to the U.S.?
The State Department says the vast majority of the 12,587 admitted last year are women and children, and only 2% are single young men who are most likely to commit terrorist acts.
QCan Trump block or favor refugees based on their religion?
Legal experts say a ban on Muslim immigrants rather than a ban on immigrants from specific countries that have Muslim majorities would be challenged based on the First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of religion.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

944 of 996 DOCUMENTS


St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

October 15, 2014 Wednesday

'The Good Lie' wisely leaves story to the refugees

BYLINE: By Chris Hewitt chewitt@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 419 words

The best thing about the new Reese Witherspoon movie is that she's not in it much.
Witherspoon is fine in "The Good Lie," playing a strong-willed social worker, but the movie is not about her character and it shouldn't be. Starting in war-ravaged West Africa, "The Good Lie" follows a handful of Sudanese children as they walk hundreds of miles to a refugee camp, where they hope to find a way to the United States. Many years later, four of these "lost boys" and a lost girl (sensitively played by Augsburg College grad Kuoth Wiel) make it to America, only to discover a whole new set of struggles. 
One of the smartest choices in "The Good Lie" is to acknowledge that Witherspoon's Carrie has as much to learn from the Sudanese as they do from her. And one of the film's best scenes, a quiet moment of reflection between the two main female characters, underscores this point. Wiel's Abital, a young woman who has already weathered many lifetimes' worth of hurt, learns that Carrie has lost her sister to cancer. Abital immediately understands and asks, "And you wonder why it was her, not you?"
Throughout "The Good Lie," the first English-language film from Philippe Falardeau (who made the Oscar-nominated "Monsieur Lazhar"), there is a sense that the filmmakers trust the inherent drama of the story, so they don't try to embellish or sentimentalize it. Falardeau leavens the film with humor and takes a low-key approach to the horrors of the story, smartly mirroring the matter-of-fact, un-self-pitying way the Africans deal with the many setbacks they face.
The mostly non-professional actors who play the Sudanese characters are all excellent, but the most impressive is Arnold Oceng, who gives their principled leader, Mamere, a quiet resolve. When he says, "We saved each other," he's speaking the truth about how he and his friends survived but it also feels like "The Good Lie" is making sure we know it's not (as it has been in many movies) the pioneering white lady who saves the people of color. They saved themselves.
Later, that point is movingly underscored with an African proverb that serves as a postscript to "The Good Lie": "If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together."
Chris Hewitt can be reached at 651-228-5552. Follow him on twitter.com/ChrisHMovie .

'THE GOOD LIE'
Directed by: Philippe Falardeau
Starring: Arnold Oceng, Kuoth Wiel, Reese Witherspoon
Rated: PG-13 for strong violence, some of it involving children
Should you go? Yes. It's a sensitive and inspiring tale. ***

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arnold Oceng, Ger Duany and Augsburg College graduate Kuoth Wiel in "The Good Lie."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 St. Paul Pioneer Press
All Rights Reserved

953 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

May 1, 2017 Monday

Refugee aid groups struggle as arrival numbers fluctuate; 
Uncertain funding poses challenge to resettlement efforts.

BYLINE: By Encarnacion Pyle

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 855 words

Pacis Umutesi (left), 32, and family arrived in Columbus last month from central Africa, where a civil war erupted in their homeland, the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
COLUMBUS - Despite the political and legal wrangling over President Donald Trump's latest travel ban, the number of refugees being resettled in Columbus and other U.S. cities has increased from 400 people a week to about 900.
That is still considerably fewer than the number of refugees originally set to arrive in the United States each week in this federal fiscal year under former President Barack Obama's plan. In October, for example, 9,945 refugees arrived, or about 2,300 a week. 
But the recent increase after this year's slowdown is enough to please the charitable organizations responsible for helping these refugees start new lives in America.
As of Thursday, 42,409 refugees had arrived in the United States - including 2,149 in Ohio - since the federal fiscal year began Oct. 1, according to data from the Worldwide Refugee Admissions Processing System.
Although the monthly numbers dropped off from February to March after Trump's first executive order, issued on Jan. 27, they are on the rise again in April despite Trump's second order, which was halted on March 15 by an injunction by a federal judge in Hawaii. Ohio's refugee-admissions figure in February, for example, was 79; it was 191 in April as of Thursday, with three days left in the month.
"No one is saying we should take them all in," Angie Plummer, executive director of Community Refugee and Immigration Services (CRIS), said of the unprecedented 65.3 million people worldwide who have been displaced from their homes. "But we can do better than we're doing."
Her group resettled 40 refugees in February, 11 in March and 34 in April. And it has helped a total of 596 people in this federal fiscal year.
Trump's January order denied entry to all refugees for up to 120 days and all travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries - Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen - for 90 days, saying the measures were needed to keep out Islamic State and al-Qaida fighters migrating from Middle East hot spots.
Federal courts shot down parts of that initial executive order, but their rulings did not affect parts affecting refugees, leaving the nine groups that are designated by the State Department to resettle refugees bracing for funding reductions and scrambling to raise money. Trump's second order, issued March 6, continued to impose a 90-day ban on travelers, but it removed Iraq from the list of countries.
The national resettlement groups and their local affiliates say that although they are grateful for the bump in recent refugee arrivals, Trump's action is causing considerable challenges because they have laid off hundreds of employees. For example, World Relief is closing five of its offices, including one in Columbus that is to shut down in mid-July.
That's because Trump's second executive order, like the first, reduces the number of refugees that will be admitted into the country in this federal fiscal year, from a planned 110,000 to 50,000. April's increase in new admissions will mean that the country reaches the 50,000 quota sooner, with some people estimating the cap will be hit by mid-June.
Simply put, fewer refugees means less money for the agencies that resettle them. The State Department pays each refugee agency $950 per person to cover administrative costs to provide services for 90 days; an additional $1,125 goes directly to each refugee to cover expenses such as food, housing and pocket money.
Plummer said resettlement services make up about a third of her agency's nearly $4 million budget. To cut costs, she said, she had to eliminate 10 positions, including a Congolese resettlement case manager, an Arabic-speaking healthcare worker and an Arabic-speaking resettlement worker, making it difficult to communicate with new arrivals from those parts of the world. "It makes a real mess of things," Plummer said.
Until recently, her organization, which is affiliated with Church World Service and Episcopal Migration Ministries, was operating under a $300,000 deficit, she said. But budget cuts and donations have helped fill the gap.
Nadia Kasvin, director and co-founder of US Together, which is affiliated with the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, said it's hard to provide the same kind of services her clients depend on after cutting her staff from 13 to
six. "Nobody is doing just one job anymore," she said.
The worst part is not knowing what will happen next month, let alone next year, if resettlement activity doesn't return to normal, Kasvin said.
Columbus' third resettlement agency, World Relief Columbus, stopped accepting new refugees for resettlement last month because of its impending closure on July 15. Resettlement agencies usually work with refugees for at least 90 days after their arrival, helping them with clothing, food, housing, employment services, follow-up medical care and other services to get them on their feet.
"I'm down to two part-time staff and myself," said Kay Lipovsky, the group's office manager. "We had eight."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

956 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Searing Images, Ravages of Upheaval;
Brazilian Chronicles the Toll of Migration

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1652 words

DATELINE: PARIS, April 23

In the early 1990's, while traveling the world to photograph the vestiges of the Industrial Age, Sebastiao Salgado repeatedly came across large numbers of people on the move, not only refugees and displaced persons fleeing wars or famine, but also legions of peasants migrating to cities to escape poverty. He had seen this before, but he now understood the phenomenon to be global.
"There hasn't been a population upheaval like this in modern times," said Mr. Salgado, 56, the Brazilian photographer. "Hundreds of millions of people in Africa, Asia and Latin America have been forced to leave their homes for similar reasons, whether political or economic. The world has gone from majority rural to majority urban. For the first time we're becoming truly modern. Everything is now interconnected." 
 So after concluding his project on the vanishing forms of manual labor with a widely acclaimed book, "Workers: Archaeology of the Industrial Age," Mr. Salgado turned his attention to what he calls "the reorganization of the human family." He set out to record why people leave their communities, what happens to them en route and where they end up. He also wanted to show the danger, suffering and misery that often accompany their flights.
Now, 6 years and 35 countries later, he has published the results of his travels in a book of 363 black-and-white photographs, "Migrations: Humanity in Transition," accompanied by a slimmer volume of 83 portraits, "The Children: Refugees and Migrants" (both published in the United States by Aperture). Related exhibitions have just opened at the George Eastman House in Rochester and the Maison Europeenne de la Photographie in Paris.
Mr. Salgado's picture of the world at the turn of the millennium is not pretty. His images show victims of war and repression in Afghanistan, Kurdistan, Rwanda, Congo, Angola and Mozambique as well as the Balkans. They follow Latin Americans trying to enter the United States, Africans intent on slipping into Europe and Vietnamese boat people stranded across Asia. And they convey something of the despair and violence of the struggle for land in Latin America.
With the flight from countryside to cities accounting for the largest movement of people, above all in Latin America and Asia, Mr. Salgado's photographs also bare humanity's "new urban face," as he puts it: vast unmanageable metropolises scarred by overcrowded shanty-towns, rampant unemployment, environmental degradation, urban violence and pockets of dizzying wealth and privilege.
"Different national experiences seem to produce the same results," Mr. Salgado, who is based in Paris, said in a recent interview. "At times I wasn't sure if I was in Mexico City or Manila."
"The Children," with its portraits of destitute girls and boys peering mysteriously into the lens, is in a sense a footnote on the state of the world. "When I was with refugees from Mozambique, there were children everywhere stopping me from working," he recalled. "So I said: 'If you want to be photographed, line up here. Then you let me work, O.K.?' It was a trick I used a number of times. Then, when I finally looked at the pictures, I was struck by their intensity. I decided the children should have their own book."
Posed photographs, though, are not typical of Mr. Salgado's work. His camera invariably focuses on people, but it seeks them out in the context of their lives, perhaps in close-up, perhaps in wide shots, but always with the idea of telling a broader story. He has little interest in covering news as such (although he did photograph the Rwandan genocide in 1994). Rather, he wants the emotion awakened by his photographs to provoke political reflection, and he includes lengthy captions in his books to facilitate the process.
If he succeeds, though, it is because images that may be disturbing to view are also striking for their light and composition. And this has led some critics to question whether it is proper to portray misery with an artist's eye. In a recent guest column in Le Monde, Jean-Francois Chevrier, an art professor, went so far as to accuse Mr. Salgado of "sentimental voyeurism" and "exploitation of compassion." Yet for other critics it is the very beauty of his photographs that gives dignity and individuality to those whose misfortunes are being chronicled.
"Every photographer has his own visual language," Mr. Salgado responded. "I know of no other way of working. I take photographs the way I see them, with the light that I have known, with the life that I have had."
It has not been uneventful. In his late teens he left his home town, Aimores in the Brazilian hinterland, to attend college in the port city Vitoria, where he met Lelia Wanick, who became his wife. By the time they moved to Sao Paulo to allow Mr. Salgado to study for a doctorate in economics, middle-class students were taking up arms against Brazil's military dictatorship. And like many educated young Brazilians, he sympathized with the rebel cause.
Finally, faced with the choice of risking arrest or going underground, he left Brazil in 1969 to complete his studies in Paris, becoming, he recalled, "part-migrant, part-refugee, part-exile." Two years later he found work with the London-based International Coffee Organization as an economist and made his first trip to Africa, including areas devastated by drought. When he took up photography in 1973, he already viewed the world through its economic and political problems.
His first photo reportage took him back to Africa to cover famine in the Sahel region. (He later published a book, "Sahel: Man in Distress," in association with Doctors Without Borders.) But while he readily accepted assignments for magazines and newspapers (including one for The New York Times Magazine, when he witnessed and photographed the attempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan in 1981), Mr. Salgado gradually began to orient his work toward what he calls photographic investigations.
One led to a book on rural life in Latin America called "Other Americas," for which this reporter wrote an introductory essay; another resulted in "Workers."
These long-term projects in turn required him to change his way of working. Above all he needed outside backing, which in the case of "Migrations" came from Kodak Professional, a division of Eastman Kodak, and Leica Camera as well as from a half-dozen magazines that published individual reportages as the project advanced. At the same time, to the dismay of some colleagues, in 1994 Mr. Salgado left the Magnum photo cooperative and set up Amazonas Images, perhaps the only agency created to distribute a single photographer's work.
Managed by his wife, an architect, Amazonas Images has enabled Mr. Salgado to ensure that his work is widely seen. "Workers," for instance, was published in seven languages, while its photographs have been shown in some 60 exhibitions. With "Terra," Mr. Salgado's 1998 book about the land struggle in Brazil, instead of a photo exhibition, 1,000 packages containing 50 posters each were sold for $500 or donated to political, church and labor groups across Brazil. The income from the book and posters went to the country's Movement of the Landless.
With "Migrations," which was designed and edited by Amazonas Images, the promotion strategy is no less ambitious. Before the opening of the Paris exhibition, which runs through Sept. 3, the Canal-Plus television network broadcast 30 two-minute films using Mr. Salgado's photographs, while Le Monde published 12 portraits from "The Children" on successive days. And to reach beyond Paris, nongovernmental organizations in France are putting on 120 shows of 61 posters donated by Amazonas Images.
With both "Migrations" and "The Children," which have their own multilingual Web site (www.sebastiaosalgado.com.br), a total of 100,000 copies have been published of each in six languages (English, German, Italian, French, Spanish and Portuguese), while 16 related exhibitions have already been scheduled. (The show at the George Eastman House in Rochester through June 18 will travel to the International Center of Photography in Manhattan in the fall.) And where exhibitions are held, Mr. Salgado encourages local newspapers to organize debates, not about his photographs but about what they show.
And while the results of his travels to dismal corners of the world may not go unnoticed, the experience of witnessing violence, despair and misery on such a scale has eroded Mr. Salgado's belief in humanity. "I am a different person from when I began this," he said. "Some of the things I saw made me literally ill. The truth about human beings seems to be the truth of violence. Poverty and the destruction of the planet are going hand in hand. I once had political beliefs, I thought there were answers. I am no longer sure."
But he has not given up. If he has concluded there are no global solutions, he evidently still believes that individuals can make a difference. So on the farm where he was reared, where 1,500 acres of pristine Atlantic Forest were cut down 50 years ago to make room for cattle, Mr. Salgado and his wife have invested a good part of their savings in a program to reforest the area with its original species. This winter the first 80,000 trees were planted.
On its own, of course, the farm can hardly reverse Brazil's devastating deforestation. But plans also include a school on the property that will offer environmental courses to high school students, teachers and municipal officials. The idea, then, is for the farm to serve as a role model.
Even more, it is to convince Brazilians that they can do something to save their forests. And for this, it helps to be the country's most famous photographer. When Brazilians come to hear Mr. Salgado talk about his photography, he never misses a chance to lecture them on the environment.
  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN TRANSITION -- Far left, Hutus from Rwanda, blocked by rebels from Zaire, camp along railroad tracks (circa 1997). Left, Church Gate Station, Bombay (1995). Below left, waiting for food distribution in Kabul, Afghanistan (1996). (Photographs by Sebastiao Salgado/Amazonas Images)(pg. E1); Sebastiao Salgado, who is based in Paris, before the St. Martin canal. (Alan Riding/The New York Times)(pg. E5)

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company

958 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

September 15, 2016 Thursday

U.S. goal: Take in 110,000 refugees; 
30 percent rise for coming year reflects concern over crisis.; 
REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: ByJosh Lederman

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 494 words

WASHINGTON - The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the previous year. 
The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.
Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where much of the refugee flow originates. An additional 35,000 will come from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.
The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region once Congress is notified.
Secretary of State John Kerry previously suggested that the U.S. target would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure Tuesday.
The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before that, the target was 70,000 per year.
The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected to people who had spent time in Syria.
Officials said potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.
The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil war that has killed roughly half a million people.
Republicangovernorshave pushed back vehemently, seeking to bar the Syrians from their states. The administrationmaintainsthatstates can'tlegallybarrefugeeswho otherwise meet the criteria.
The U.S. has tried to encourage other countries to increase their contribution to alleviating the refugee crisis. The official said increasing the U.S. target this year reflected that strategy and Obama's belief that all nations need to do more to help the neediest.
As part of that effort, Obama plans to host a summit on refugee issues with world leaders next week during the U.N. General Assembly gathering in New York. The White House said the summit would spotlight the need to increase money for aid agencies, resettle more refugees and provide education and job assistance.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

959 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

September 15, 2016 Thursday

U.S. goal: Take in 110,000 refugees; 
30 percent rise for coming year reflects concern over crisis.; 
REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: ByJosh Lederman

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 494 words

WASHINGTON - The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the previous year. 
The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.
Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where much of the refugee flow originates. An additional 35,000 will come from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.
The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region once Congress is notified.
Secretary of State John Kerry previously suggested that the U.S. target would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure Tuesday.
The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before that, the target was 70,000 per year.
The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected to people who had spent time in Syria.
Officials said potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.
The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil war that has killed roughly half a million people.
Republicangovernorshave pushed back vehemently, seeking to bar the Syrians from their states. The administrationmaintainsthatstates can'tlegallybarrefugeeswho otherwise meet the criteria.
The U.S. has tried to encourage other countries to increase their contribution to alleviating the refugee crisis. The official said increasing the U.S. target this year reflected that strategy and Obama's belief that all nations need to do more to help the neediest.
As part of that effort, Obama plans to host a summit on refugee issues with world leaders next week during the U.N. General Assembly gathering in New York. The White House said the summit would spotlight the need to increase money for aid agencies, resettle more refugees and provide education and job assistance.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

962 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

November 25, 2015 Wednesday  
Worcester TG Edition

Misconceptions plague plight of refugees

BYLINE: Telegram & Gazette Staff

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 616 words

WORCESTER -- Misconceptions about refugees and what they go through have dominated the conversation about the recent Syrian refugee crisis, Torli Krua told an audience Tuesday night at the Worcester Public Library.
SEE Refugees,  A13
One of those misconceptions is that refugees want to leave their country and never go back, said Mr. Krua, who fled his native Liberia in the midst of that country's civil war in 1990. Many do want to return, and as founder of Universal Human Rights International, Mr. Krua promotes refugee-led systemic solutions that focus on the source of refugee problems. 
For too long, Mr. Krua said, developed nations have funneled support for various rebel groups and refugee resettlement instead of dealing with the roots of instability in countries such as Liberia, where unemployment is extraordinarily high and much of the foreign aid that flows into the country is misappropriated by the ruling class. 
Promoting peace is the best way to solve the refugee crises, he said. 
Mr. Krua's organization assists former refugees in returning to their native countries when hostilities cease. He said coming to America not only gives them safety from persecution in their home country, but it allows them the opportunity to learn skills and get an education. He talked about former Liberian refugees who have gone back home to build schools and promote entrepreneurial programs. The current state of thought on refugees is a one-way street, Mr. Krua said. 
"But people need to go back," he added.
Refugees have become a political football and a hot-button issue in recent weeks; several governors of U.S. states have said Syrian refugees are not welcome in light of the Paris terrorist attacks because of rumors that some of the assailants were refugees in Europe.
But in the U.S. in particular, getting refugee status is a rigorous process that involves background checks, interviews and specific criteria, Mr. Krua said. The U.S. has pledged to accept up to 10,000 Syrian refugees during the next year.
Nobody wakes up saying they want to become a refugee, Mr. Krua said.
In 1990, Mr. Krua was living in the Liberian capital of Monrovia and earned a good living working for the former Wang Laboratories computer firm. He provided technical support for the company in Africa, the Middle East and Europe.
Rising unrest made headlines and led newscasts in Monrovia, but at 4 a.m. one day it all came right to his door. Armed men claimed he was supporting the rebels and took him out to be executed.
He initially avoided being killed because he had a security pass that allowed him in the U.S. Embassy, where he had a contract. He convinced his kidnappers that if he was killed the U.S. government would come after them. Eventually he was able to flee to Brussels on one of the last commercial flights out of the country for 14 years, he said.
He eventually settled in America and now lives in Boston, where he is a pastor with the Greater Boston Refugee Ministry. 
There are many refugees with similarly harrowing stories, but when viewed as a part of the entire population of a country, refugees only account for a small percentage, Mr. Krua said. He said the enormous resources being spent on war and refugee resettlement would be better spent on funding education, infrastructure and entrepreneurship.
"Who's going to deal with the issues better than the people who live there?" he said. 
From Page A1
Torli Krua, founder of Universal Human Rights International, gives a talk Tuesday at the Worcester Public Library about refugee-led solutions in areas of conflict. Christine Hochkeppel / T&G Staff
Torli Krua, founder of Universal Human Rights International. Christine Hochkeppel / T&G Staff

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

963 of 996 DOCUMENTS

St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

May 29, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition
Correction Appended

REFUGEES FROM SOMALIAN UNDERCLASS WILL SETTLE HERE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1324 words

* The Bantu people of Somalia are descendants of slaves and have suffered persecution as well as impoverishment in their African homeland.
The first of nearly 12,000 Somali Bantus are leaving Africa on the latest leg of a harsh, historic journey that will eventually lead to the resettlement of possibly more than 200 of the refugees in St. Louis.
For many of these Bantus, their arrival in the United States ends more than a decade in barren refugee camps in Kenya. Before that, the Bantu people in Somalia endured two centuries of slavery and oppression.
"These folks are survivors," said Joel Frushone, Africa policy analyst for the U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group. "They're industrious and hard-working folks, and given the opportunity in America, they'll do well." 
The term bantu describes a large group of black Africans in the southern half of the continent sharing related languages, including Swahili and Zulu.
Not since the resettlement here of rural Laotians and Cambodians in the early 1980s has a large refugee group less exposed to Western ways arrived in St. Louis, say officials of the International Institute in St. Louis, say officials of the International Institute in St. Louis, the local organization sponsoring the newcomers.
"They'll know about the light switch, but they may not know about the light bill," said Suzanne LeLaurin of the Institute.
The group said it expects to resettle 51 Bantus here by Sept. 30 and possibly 200 more in the following two years. The first seven families, consisting of 14 adults and 31 children, and are likely to arrive in June or July.
The story of the Bantu people in Somalia is particularly harsh and sad, according to published histories and interviews with refugee workers.
In the 19th century, Arab slave traders seized Bantus from their ancestral homelands in Mozambique and Tanzania and sold many to plantation owners in Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf countries, including Somalia.
Even though emancipated by the Italian colonial government in the early 1900s, some Bantus remained in virtual slavery in Somalia until the 1930s. Others were treated as second-class citizens, discouraged from sending their children to school, owning land or political representation.
Even after emancipation, the Italians forced most Bantu to abandon their own farms and work as laborers on more than 100 plantations owned by the colonial government.
The Bantu people fared better under British occupation during and after World War II but saw a return of discrimination once the country became independent in 1960. Some Bantus established farms or moved to larger cities to find work.
From the late 1970s until the early 1980s, the Somali government forcibly conscripted Bantus to serve in its war with Ethiopia.
When Somalia disintegrated into a war among rival clans in the early 1990s, the Bantu people became a target for attacks, rapes and killings. They joined the exodus of tens of thousands to neighboring Kenya.
But even in the refugee camps, Bantus from Somalia reported being treated "as serfs by their neighbors," according to a report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
They refused to return to Somalia.
For the last dozen years, they have languished in mud homes and under tarp-covered branches in Kenya's arid high desert while nations argued over their fate, said Frushone, who visited the camps in May 2001.
In 1999, the United States agreed to accept the Bantu refugees, but delays and then security concerns following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, delayed their departure again and again.
Almost all refugees are overwhelmed by their initial experiences in the United States. Most cannot read, write or speak English, yet still must quickly adapt in an alien culture.
Most of the Somali Bantu refugees are rural farmers, farm laborers or construction workers with no formal education, according to a profile of the Bantu people developed by the Cultural Orientation Resource Center, a U.S. State Department-funded program that provides information to refugee professionals.
Prior to fleeing from Somalia, many knew little of modern conveniences such as electricity or plumbing, had never seen a city, climbed stairs, ridden in a car or flown in an aircraft.
They practice traditional beliefs in medicine including the use of ritual ceremonies to cast off illness and evil spells.
Like all refugees, the Bantus undergo cultural orientation classes to prepare them for their new homes. They receive extensive training in housing, health, education and work. They practice in model kitchens and bathrooms, learn about hot and cold water and household safety.
They're also are told they must give up the practices of multiple wives and female circumcision.
Not every community in the United States is welcoming the Bantus. In Holyoke, Mass., the City Council last year voted to oppose the resettlement of Bantus in their economically depressed community. The council said it could not afford to house, educate and provide services to the several hundred Bantus expected there.
In St. Louis, Institute officials plan to offer more help than usual to the Bantus. They are increasing the amount of time social workers will spend with the Bantu families during their first hours in St. Louis and planning daily visits by volunteers for at least the first week following their arrival.
Much of that time will be spent reinforcing lessons about life in America and expounding on what they've already learned about modern conveniences.
As much as practical survival skills, Institute officials also will be concentrating on providing the Bantus with a sense of connectedness.
In Somalia, the Bantu people maintain a strong sense of family and community. Families tend to be large with four to eight children. Extended families lived in closely knit villages where members rely on each other for support.
"Their way of taking care of themselves is to take care of one another in a way that Americans don't," LeLaurin said.
With no established families or relatives in the United States, officials worry about quickly developing support networks for the Bantu people. The State Department is hoping to keep extended families together as much as possible.
"Even if everybody in an extended family comes to St. Louis, they're not going to be in the same three-block radius," LeLaurin said. "The ease with which they can connect to one another is not going to be as easy. They're going to have to re-create how they stay physically and emotionally connected to one another on a day-to-day basis. That's going to be a real challenge for us."
Civil war in Somalia
Civil war broke out in Somalia in the wake of the 1991 collapse of President Mohamed Siad Barre's government.
Because the Bantu people in Somalia were excluded from the traditional Somali clan protection network, bandits and militias attacked Bantu Somalis with impunity. The militias stole food, robbed, raped and murdered.
In October 1992, the Somali Bantus began to flee from southern Somalia in large numbers for refugee camps in Kenya.
Source: Cultural Orientation Resource Center
How to help
The International Institute in St. Louis is seeking housing with multiple bedrooms and a reasonable rent, preferably in south St. Louis along bus lines. Contact P. Ariel Burgess at 314-773-9090, Ext. 115.
The Institute also is seeking volunteers willing to serve as visitors to newly arriving Bantu families. Training is provided. Contact Stefanie Stricker, 314-773-9090, Ext. 189.
Contributions also are being accepted for the agency's Warm Welcome program. Items sought as donations include kitchen supplies, linens, cleaning products, personal care items, school supplies, home furnishings, prepaid phone cards and grocery and discount-store gift certificates.
For more information, contact Beth Radtke at 314-773-9090, Ext. 117.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321


CORRECTION: 
CORRECTION PUBLISHED Friday, May 30, 2003: Somalia is located along the Indian Ocean. This story incorrectly identified the body of water.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, MAPPost-Dispatch Color Graphic / MAP - SOMALIA

Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

964 of 996 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

June 5, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST 

What We Lose by Barring Refugees; 
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: ANTONY J. BLINKEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1053 words


HIGHLIGHT: After the most recent London attacks, President Trump doubled down on his call for a travel ban. But that ban has never really been about security.

President Trump's eruption of tweets in response to the London terror attacks doubled down on his self-described travel ban: "We need the courts to give us back our rights. We need the travel ban as an extra level of safety!"
Mr. Trump knows that banning travel to the United States from a half dozen Muslim-majority countries would do nothing to enhance our security -- and everything to undermine it. The threat we face is mostly home grown. The perpetrators of recent attacks in Britain, France and Belgium were all citizens or longtime residents of those countries -- and none of those attackers would have been subject to the ban had they wanted to bring terrorism to the United States. By alienating Muslim communities and our closest allies, Mr. Trump would destroy the partnerships we need to effectively fight terror.
Mr. Trump's travel ban has never really been about security. Rather, it's the tip of the spear in a much broader battle: to drastically curtail immigration to the United States that is changing the complexion of our country. One week before the London attacks, Mr. Trump waged his latest offensive in that effort at the meeting of the Group of 7 leading economic powers.
Taormina, the Sicilian coastal city that hosted the G7, has long been a playground for the jet set. But Italy chose the locale to spotlight a different dimension of the human condition: the hundreds of thousands of refugees who, in desperation, put their lives on the line to cross the Mediterranean from North Africa and the Middle East every year.
While Mr. Trump's pronouncements on trade and climate change drew most of the attention, behind the scenes the drama over migration policy was just as intense -- and just as far-reaching in its consequences.
We are in the midst of the largest wave of human displacement since World War II. Around the world, 65 million people -- including 21 million refugees -- are on the move, forced from home by war, violence, economic deprivation and climate change. If they all came together in one country, it would be about the size of Britain. Instead, they are spread across the planet -- putting pressure on national borders; straining budgets, infrastructure and social services; reshaping economies and communities; affecting our sense of security; but most of all challenging us to live up to our common humanity.
Italy hoped the G7 would issue a detailed stand-alone policy statement and emphasize the obligation of developed nations to resettle more migrants and refugees, who on average spend 10 years away from their home countries. Most G7 members rallied behind Italy's action plan and conviction that a global problem demands a global response.
The United States said no. The White House scuttled the stand-alone statement and sought to water down any migration references in the summit conference's final communiqu -- especially language that implied an obligation to take in more refugees. Only a furious effort by Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of Italy preserved a bare-minimum mention of Italy's proposed migration plan in the communiqu. That plan would have committed the G7 to find more permanent homes for refugees, increase financial assistance and support schooling for children and jobs for adults.
Back home, the Trump administration seeks to halve the number of refugees admitted each year while pressing its travel ban, which has been struck down by federal courts and may soon wind up before the Supreme Court. It has proposed draconian budget cuts for humanitarian and development assistance, diplomacy and the United Nations -- whose agencies play a key role in supporting refugees and their host communities. And Mr. Trump returned from the G7 just in time to walk away from the Paris climate accord.
This completes Washington's own perilous journey: In less than one year, it has gone from mobilizing the international community in search of solutions to the migration crisis to a total abdication of leadership.
Just nine months ago, President Obama convened a special leaders summit meeting on refugees during the United Nations General Assembly. Fifty-two countries made commitments to increase their financial contributions to international humanitarian organizations by $4.5 billion over 2015 levels, double the number of refugees they resettle, and improve access to education for one million refugee children and to lawful work for one million adults. As well, 50 leading American companies committed to provide education opportunities for 80,000 refugees and employment possibilities for 200,000.
And the United States did more to lead by example, raising the ceiling on annual refugee admissions to 110,000, including 10,000 Syrians. That was not enough, but it was a step toward reclaiming America's place as the last best hope on earth.
That hope gave life to my own family, as it did so many generations of new Americans.
My father's father fled a pogrom in Russia in the early 20th century and was welcomed to the United States. So was my stepmother, who escaped as a young girl from Communist Hungary in 1950.
And then there was my stepfather, one of 900 children in his school in Bialystok, Poland, but the only one to survive the Holocaust, after four years in the concentration camps.
At the end of the war he made a break from a death march, into the Bavarian woods. Days later, he heard the rumbling sound of a tank and looked out from his hiding place. Instead of the dreaded swastika, he saw a five-pointed white star. He ran to the star. The tank's hatch opened and a large African-American soldier looked down at him. He fell to his knees and said the only three words in English that he knew, taught to him by his mother: God bless America. The G.I. lifted him into the tank, into America, into freedom.
That's who we are. That's what America represents to the world, however imperfectly. And that's what we now risk losing, piece by piece, with an administration that would keep that tank hatch slammed shut.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
Antony J. Blinken (@ABlinken), a managing director of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, was a deputy secretary of state in the Obama administration and is a contributing opinion writer.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

973 of 996 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

February 7, 2002 Thursday 
Correction Appended  
 Late Edition - Final

Foreign Born in U.S. at Record High 

BYLINE:   By JANNY SCOTT 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 712 words

The number of foreign-born residents and children of immigrants in the United States has reached the highest level in history, according to a Census Bureau report released yesterday. It found that the number had leapt to 56 million from 34 million in the last three decades.
     Mexico accounted for more than a quarter of all the foreign-born residents, the bureau's analysis of data from its March 2000 Current Population Survey showed. That share is the largest any country has held since the 1890 census, when about 30 percent of the country's foreign-born population was from Germany.  
 The study found that, on average, foreign-born residents were much more likely than native Americans to live in or around a handful of big cities. They were almost equally likely to be in the labor force. But foreign-born residents earned less and were less likely to have health insurance than native Americans.
While the number of foreign-born residents and their children is higher than ever, their percentage in the population is not. In the 1910 census, that group made up 35 percent of the population, compared with 20 percent in 2000, a spokesman for the Census Bureau said.
The report brings together data on the age, sex and birthplaces of the foreign born, their education levels, jobs and earnings. In doing so, it makes clear the near impossibility of generalizing about immigrants and the immigrant experience.
For example, while only 33.8 percent of residents over age 25 and born in Mexico had completed high school, 95 percent of those born in Africa had. While the median household income for those born in Latin America was $29,338, it was $51,363 for those from Asia, well above that of native Americans.
The proportion of married couples with children under 18 ranged from 35 percent for residents born in Europe to 73.4 percent for those from Latin America. The proportion of naturalized citizens varied widely, from 52 percent of those born in Europe to 21.1 percent of those born in Central America.
"The big question is how the second generation is going to do," said Nancy Foner, a professor of anthropology at the State University of New York at Purchase and the author of "From Ellis Island to JFK: New York's Two Great Waves of Immigration" (Yale, 2000). "And how the presence of large proportions of Asians, Latinos and black immigrants are changing Americans' notions of race."
The Census Bureau study found that the foreign-born population was heavily concentrated in California, New York, Florida, Texas, New Jersey and Illinois; those six states accounted for 70.4 percent of the total. Nearly 55 percent lived in the nine metropolitan areas with populations of five million or more. 
California led the nation with the highest percentage of foreign-born residents with 25.9 percent, followed by New York State with 19.6. The metropolitan areas with the largest percentage of foreign-born populations were Los Angeles were 29.6 percent and New York with 22.8. 
In New York City, said John H. Mollenkopf, a demographer at the City University of New York, 43 percent of the residents are foreign born and another 9.2 percent are the children of two foreign-born parents. In 1900, Professor Mollenkopf said, only 23 percent of New Yorkers had native-born parents. 
The Census Bureau's report put at 55.9 million the number of people of so-called foreign stock, which includes 28.4 million foreign born, 14.8 million native born with two foreign-born parents, and 12.7 million of mixed parentage. That group is likely to grow, in part because the proportion of births to foreign-born women rose to 20.2 percent in 1999 from 6 percent of all births in 1970, the report said.
While the median ages of the foreign-born and native populations barely differed, foreign-born residents fell disproportionately between the ages of 25 and 54. The percentage of foreign-born residents in that age group was 58.7, compared with 41.7 percent of native Americans.
"In some ways, it has complemented the baby boom," Dianne Schmidley, a Census Bureau statistician and author of the report, said of the rise of the foreign born. "Every discussion you hear about the baby boom and the effect of the baby boom -- all that has been made greater by the addition of those young adults."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2002


CORRECTION: A headline on Thursday about 2000 census figures that show a record number of foreign-born residents in the United States misstated the number. It is 28.4 million; 56 million is the number of people who are foreign-born or who are native-born to at least one foreign-born parent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HEAD COUNT: More Americans Born Abroad"In 2000, 56 million Americans, or 20 percent of the population, had either been born in a foreign country or had at least one parent who was, according to Census Bureau estimates. The question on the birthplace of parents was not asked in 1940, 1950, 1980 or 1990. Graphs compare number born, measured in millions, in this country to at least one foreign-born parent and born in a foreign country and number as a percentage of the population from 1890-2000.(Source: Census Bureau, Current Population Survey 2000 ; previous decennial censuses)      

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

975 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 15, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Soviet Refugees, by Any Other Name

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

How can the Bush Administration turn so heartlessly against Soviet Jews yearning for freedom? ''Heartlessly'' does not, at first, seem too strong -not when Jewel Lafontant, the Administration's refugee coordinator, tells Congress, so what if the U.S. doesn't admit them; they can ''always go to Israel or return to Russia.''
But the Administration's policy is more hospitable than Ms. Lafontant's callous words. Soviet Jews were long regarded as refugees by definition: they could demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution.'' Now that Mikhail Gorbachev is letting many more of them leave and now that they are less likely to face persecution if they stay, it is no longer obvious that they are entitled to come to this country as refugees. 
The remedy is to escape the emotional grip of the word ''refugee,'' with all its legal obligations. The Bush Administration is trying to do that. But it and Congress now need to figure out how to accommodate more Soviet emigres while dealing decently with persecuted people elsewhere.
The Administration wants to let in only 6,500 more Soviet refugees in 1990 than in 1989, even though many more want in. The Administration also opposes bills to make it easier for Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians to qualify as refugees. Yet no one wants to deny entry to Soviet Jews.  Humane hospitality calls for admitting more emigres - but not necessarily as refugees. Many might be more appropriately accommodated by an Administration proposal to issue up to 30,000 ''special humanitarian visas'' a year.
Under Administration proposals as many as 100,000 Soviet citizens, most of them Jews, would enter the United States next year: 50,000 as refugees, 20,000 as immigrants and the rest under the new visas.
Only those formally designated as refugees are eligible for public assistance. As many as 14 million people around the world could so qualify. But tight budgets make for tough choices. For the $7,000 on average that it costs to assist each refugee who resettles here, the U.S. could help hundreds of refugees in Africa and Asia.
Until a year ago, Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians were presumed to be refugees. Then the U.S. Government concluded that this blanket status was no longer appropriate for Jews and insisted on interviewing applicants one by one. Some members of Congress proposed legislation restoring blanket refugee status. They acknowledge that religious persecution is the exception in Mikhail Gorbachev's Soviet Union. But they sense a surge in anti-Semitism under glasnost, and fear the exit door might not remain open forever.
The difficulty with that argument is there's a limit to the number of refugees America can accept. Granting refugee status to some people as a class would rule out accepting others with compelling claims, like Chinese students or Salvadorans.
The sensible course is to continue to admit those Soviet Jews who qualify, in case-by-case interviews, as refugees. The Administration will now expedite that interviewing. Meanwhile, the backlog of 17,000 Jews now waiting in Vienna and Rome could be cleared up by issuing them the new special visas, if private sponsorship can be arranged. They would be eligible for citizenship.
Not all Soviet emigres who want to come can be accommodated as refugees. But there are other ways, more worthy of urgent Congressional support, to open the door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

977 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 18, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE ENEMY THAT MOROCCO FACES IN THE SAHARA

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

To the Editor:
Marlene Sokol's Dec. 3 Op-Ed article on the Western Sahara is riddled with factual errors, and the conclusions she draws read like the high points of the Polisario play book.
No knowledgeable observer has ever accepted Polisario's contention that some 750,000 Western Sahara natives now reside in Algerian refugee camps. One of America's top experts on North Africa came away from the refugee zone with an admittedly rough estimate of 35,000, and many analysts would suggest that even that figure includes a fair number who are not from the Western Sahara at all but from neighboring states, such as Mali, Niger or even Libya. 
In any event, King Hassan certainly did not drive hundreds of thousands of Saharans from their villages. In fact, in the initial stages of the takeover (1975-76), Moroccan troops were dispatched to the countryside to round up and return to their homes Saharans who had fled from the warfare.
If the Moroccan army were confronted only by Polisario, the war in the Western Sahara would have dwindled into insignificance long ago.However, there have been at least three major engagements between the Moroccan and Algerian armies during the six-year-old conflict.  Algeria trains the guerrillas and serves as the conduit for arms and ammunition from other countries.
It may well be that the Moroccan army suffered a setback at Guelta Zemmour in the most recent fighting, but we submit that Miss Sokol has no evidence to support her contention that it was a ''brutal defeat.'' Furthermore, it is well known that Moroccan strategy over the past few years has focused on securing the coastal towns of Dakhla, Layoun and Bujdor along with the inland town of Smara and the phosphate mines at Bu Craa. Guelta Zemmour is hundreds of kilometers from any of those localities.
The United States is not the only major power supplying arms to Morocco. France, too, has a longstanding military-supply relationship with the kingdom, witness the Mirage jets used by the Moroccan air force.
Miss Sokol downplays the concern expressed by Secretary of State Haig and other U.S. officials at Polisario's reported use of Sovietmade tanks and surface-to-air missiles. Yet, as the Administration maintains, the use of those weapons does represent a significant new factor in the warfare.
Miss Sokol suggests that King Hassan enjoys ''little popular support'' at home on the Saharan issue. That assertion is the most patently absurd of her article. There is no doubt that the conflict has brought considerable hardship to Morocco, but even more certain is that no political issue since the drive for independence 25 years ago has united Morocco more than the demand for ''reintegration'' of the kingdom's ''Saharan provinces.''
Even Miss Sokol's backhanded compliment to the Moroccan King is in error. She says he has offered ''lukewarm endorsement of Camp David.'' Rubbish! The King did offer some initial encouragement to President Sadat's quest for peace with Israel, but Morocco has remained firmly within the Arab camp, having opposed the Camp David framework since its signature in 1978.
DOUGLAS and RACHIDA ROBERTS, Bethesda, Md., Dec. 3, 1981. The writers are journalists who worked for the Voice of America in Africa and in the Middle East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

979 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

July 8, 2018 Sunday  
METRO EDITION

Memoir recounts incredible hardships of a refugee's life

BYLINE: LAURIE HERTZEL; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: VARIETY; Pg. 9E

LENGTH: 637 words


HIGHLIGHT: NONFICTION: Unforgettable story of a child displaced by war is a crucial, timely read.

Clemantine Wamariya fled genocide in her native Rwanda when she was 6 years old. She and her 15-year-old sister Claire were on the run for the next six years, hiding out in banana groves, living in refugee camps, hauling jugs of water, digging flesh-burrowing bugs out of their feet, foraging for firewood, sleeping on cardboard, sleeping in mud, eating maize and beans, maize and beans, maize and beans, eating grasshoppers, crossing raging rivers in leaky boats, walking for days, trying to stay clean, trying to stay human.
All of Clemantine's toenails fell out. She had to have her head shaved, to get rid of the lice. She was exhausted all the time. She was a child of 6, then 7, then 8, 9, 10, 11. "Staying alive was so much work," she writes in her unforgettable memoir, "The Girl Who Smiled Beads." "I was hungry, I was thirsty, I needed a bathroom, I needed a place to sleep. I was so confused. I just kept spinning." 
Wherever she was, she tried to keep herself and her scrap of shelter clean. She railed against other children in the camps: "I couldn't stand the naked two- and three-year-olds. They looked to me like strays - filthy, unloved, drooling, bugs crawling on their faces, flies around their eyes that nobody bothered to swat."
She yelled at them to put on some clothes. She was terrified she would forget what it meant to be civilized. To be human.
For six years, she and Claire moved around Africa, from Rwanda to Burundi to South Africa to Tanzania to Zambia to Zaire and back to Rwanda. Mostly, they walked. They did not know where their parents were, nor their brother. Claire's dreams of studying at McGill University were long gone; instead, she became skilled at bartering and hustling.
Clemantine saved rocks in her Mickey Mouse backpack, one from each place they stayed, "to keep track of where we'd been." When she lost the backpack, she was inconsolable. Earlier she had described her fear as "bright blue." Now, her rage was "dark red."
This gripping memoir follows two parallel tracks: Clemantine's life on the run in Africa, and her life in the United States, where she was granted refugee status at the age of 12.
Her fury did not abate in the U.S. She is deeply grateful to the foster mother who took her in, gave her space and calm, bought her clothes, helped her with school. Mrs. Thomas "understood my fear of being lost or left behind," Clemantine writes. With Mrs. Thomas' help, Clemantine was accepted into Yale and graduated with a degree in comparative literature.
But life in America ("the ultimate land of hustle and reward") had its own terrors. Once the wearying grind of finding food and water was lifted and she was safe, she was engulfed in trying to deal with her trauma and grief. In school, when the class studied genocide, she fell apart.
The agony of displacement does not magically vanish in a new, safer country. Even after she was reunited with her parents - in the oddest possible way, on Oprah Winfrey's television show - the break could not be mended. The damage of years of war and separation was not easily repaired. At age 30, she is still working on it.
Memoirs by immigrants and refugees are growing in number; they are important stories that need to be told, and told in the kind of bug-and-mud-and-dysentery detail that Wamariya's is told.
Especially now, with families walking for weeks across Mexican deserts only to be separated in the United States, this book is crucial. It is our human tragedy that there will always be war, and that there will always be displaced people. Memoirs that show exactly what that means, exactly what the toll is, are vital.
Laurie Hertzel is the senior editor for books at the Star Tribune.
The Girl Who Smiled Beads: A Story of War and What Comes After
By: Clemantine Wamariya and Elizabeth Weil.
Publisher: Crown, 275 pages, $26.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Star Tribune
All Rights Reserved

982 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 14, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Aug. 7-13;
Castro Blows Off Some Steam

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE  

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 2;   Column 4;   Week in Review Desk  

LENGTH: 387 words

FOR Fidel Castro it's been a summer of demonstrations, power shortages and boat hijackings. Unnerved by these developments, he has predictably blamed Uncle Sam for his troubles, attacking in particular the trade embargo and anti-Castro radio broadcasts. Without a Che Guevara to sow revolution in Latin America and without a Soviet sponsor to finance Cuban forces in Africa, Mr. Castro has turned to the remaining trump card he has: the threat of a new boatlift.
 After thousands of young people shouted, "Down with Castro" at an Aug. 5 demonstration in Havana, Mr. Castro raised the spectre of a replay of the Mariel boatlift, the chaotic 1980 exodus in which 125,000 Cubans fled to Florida. This immediately set off alarm bells in the Clinton Administration, which envisioned a flood of Cubans, coming after a tidal wave of Haitians, creating social and political havoc in Florida and scuttling the Democrats' electoral chances there in 1994 and 1996.
 
 Mr. Castro grew angrier still last Monday when, according to Havana, a sailor hijacked a government-owned boat, killing a navy officer on board, and then headed toward Florida with 25 friends and relatives. Mr. Castro once again condemned Washington, saying it encouraged such violent incidents by admitting hijackers, even when they use force to steal boats.
 Many Cuba watchers interpreted Mr. Castro's complaints and threats as a transparent effort to press Washington to turn down the anti-Castro decibel level and to treat the hijackers as common criminals. At the same time, there was widespread doubt that he would unleash a new boatlift. While a new Mariel would rid him of many troublemakers, it would send a message of instablity to investors and tourists.
 Bluff of not, the Clinton Administration isn't taking chances. It quickly took the wraps off plans for the Navy and Coast Guard to mount a partial blockade, intercepting and even seizing boats from Florida heading to pick up Cubans. For the Clinton Administration, this commotion shows widening cracks in Cuba, but it doesn't point to an imminent toppling of the 68-year-old leader. Michael Skol, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, said, "There is rising dissidence within Cuba, but there is no evidence that's he's lost control."   STEVEN GREENHOUSE

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

983 of 996 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

December 23, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Iraqi troops open fire on international patrol

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 312 words

 Iraqi troops fired at an international convoy protecting a Kurdish area of northern Iraq but caused no casualties, U.S. defense officials said Wednesday.
The Pentagon said a group of 25 U.S., British, French, Turkish and Kurdish personnel traveling in a four-vehicle convoy came under small-arms and light machine-gun fire on Tuesday from Iraqi positions near the town of Faydah. They withdrew without returning fire.
Later, on the same patrol, they came under fire for a second time. This time, local guards traveling with the party returned fire. The officials said this was believed to be the first ground attack against international forces since the security zone was established in the aftermath of the 1991 gulf war to protect Kurds from Iraqi attacks.
 HAITI WARNING: The United States warned Haiti's military leaders they must comply with a peace plan by Jan. 15 or risk a further tightening of international economic sanctions. The additional sanctions could include the limitation of non-commercial flights into and out of Haiti, State Department spokesman David Johnson said.
 BAD WEATHER: U.S. troops took to boats through flooded cities in southern Germany to save stranded children and workers. Farther north, the Rhine began flooding the cities of Cologne and Koblenz and threatened the parliament building in Bonn. The flood - the worst in Germany in 46 years - is responsible for five deaths. In South America, landslides across Colombia cut a major highway and buried dozens of homes. The death toll could reach 80.
 AFRICAN REFUGEES: The United Nations warned that disaster looms for 750,000 African refugees who fled tribal conflict in Burundi to neighboring countries.
 CHINA-TAIWAN: Talks between China and Taiwan ended with negotiators unable to agree on repatriation of Chinese hijackers and resolution of fishing disputes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.

989 of 996 DOCUMENTS

Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

November 18, 1991 Monday Burlington Edition

Mercy flights to Africa teach stark lesson on good life

SOURCE: THE SPECTATOR

BYLINE: By STEVE ARNOLD

SECTION: TODAY; Pg. T6

LENGTH: 519 words

STARVATION AND desperate poverty may be routine for many Africans, but for former Burlington resident Simon Round they were a pointed reminder of just how good life in Canada can be.
For two weeks in September, the Canadian Armed Forces officer was part of a team assigned to the United Nations for an emergency food convoy into strife-torn Ethiopia.
Flying as the navigator of a Hercules transport plane, and landing on runways marked by bomb craters, he made nearly 50 trips during that period. 
"Ninety per cent of the airports we flew into were just strips in the middle of the desert, and some of them were just barely bulldozed strips at that," said the captain in an interview from his Oshawa home.
Capt. Round was part of one of several Canadian flight crews assigned to the United Nations for the airlift into Ethiopia.
Working from bases in nearby Djibouti, they each carried up to 20 tonnes of grain and soya meal donated by European countries and the United States.
Once unloaded in Ethiopia, the food supplies were turned over to the Red Cross to be trucked to refugee camps -- some holding as many as 100,000 people.
"As soon as we landed, people who looked like frail little old men would start to unload the airplane," he said.
"It took 40 minutes to get loaded in Djibouti and only 20 minutes for them to unload the food. I guess that's the difference between being starving and having plenty of food," said Capt. Round.
Among the UN agencies working to alleviate the desperate poverty of Africa is UNICEF, represented in Burlington by Capt. Round's mother Jean, a pastoral lay worker for St. Luke's Anglican Church.
According to information she supplied, years of civil war, drought and famine have crippled Ethiopia. One in four children dies before reaching the age of five, compared to eight deaths per thousand in Canada. The mortality rate for women in childbirth is 40 times that of the industrialized world.
One-third of the children are seriously underweight and Ethiopia has the world's highest illiteracy rate.
While a first visit to a Third World country can be a shock for many servicemen, Capt. Round has made five other journey's to Africa, as well as South America and Eastern Europe.
He is also a veteran of Operation Desert Storm.
"I'm proud to have been in the Gulf War, but this was a more enjoyable feeling," he said.
"The war was right and good, but here you know you are doing good things for people and they appreciate it."
Although he didn't visit any of the refugee camps, Capt. Round said the sights and smells of poverty are never far from the mind during any visit to Africa, even in the heart of major cities.
"There are always beggars in the streets, men sitting on a little piece of cardboard that they put over themselves at night," he said. "The more I travel, the more I realize just how good life can be here."
The work of agencies such as UNICEF is supported by the sale of Christmas cards, stationery, books toys and gift items. In Burlington, that merchandise is available at Burlington Mall and Mapleview Centre until Nov. 23.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Special to The Spectator Sacks of food are unloaded at an Ethiopian air strip from a Canadian Hercules bearing the UN emblem.

TYPE: News

Copyright 1991 Metroland Media Group Ltd

996 of 996 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 27, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Slow Response on Rwanda

Robert B. Oakley

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A27

LENGTH: 924 words

It is heartening to see the large-scale mobilization of the Clinton administration in response to the incredible, massive Rwandan refugee disaster, as well as positive responses from many other countries and organizations. However, it is unfortunate that the response of the United States and other governments was so slow in coming, since the likelihood of the mass exodus and its consequences was evident weeks ago.
The delay by governments in spite of appeals by U.N. Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, President Francois Mitterrand of France and U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Sadako Ogata meant that international action was not taken that might have prevented the exodus or reduced its magnitude. At a minimum, an earlier response would have had many more relief workers and supplies on the ground to start work at once rather than after death and debilitation from disease and hunger had taken such a heavy toll. 
Even before the first mass exodus of refugees, mainly to Tanzania, the secretary general was urging the establishment of a U.N. peace-keeping force to prevent further politically inspired genocide inside Rwanda as well as to head off the outflow of refugees. The reaction of the United States was negative, and there was little enthusiasm in the Security Council. Still paralyzed by the tragic military events of last October in Somalia -- and forgetting the earlier humanitarian triumph there -- the few voices in the Clinton administration and Congress calling for positive action were overwhelmed. Conventional wisdom understandably warned against new peace-keeping operations in such a confused, violent situation as Rwanda. Prospects of effective action seemed dubious and an exit point was so hard to envisage. Nor was there much attention from the media.
As the scale of Rwandan horrors continued to rise and began to receive soul-searing television coverage, the United States offered limited support for Rwandan peace-keeping, provided no U.S. military personnel were involved and the operation was properly planned. Preparations for some kind of U.N. African force proceeded, but very slowly. France, seeing what was occurring and about to occur, could wait no longer. It undertook a limited humanitarian mission -- in much the same fashion, although on a much smaller scale, as the United States had in Somalia in December 1992. It did so although only Senegal responded to the appeal for participation by other governments.
Despite criticism that there were ulterior motives or that they would end up at war with the opposition Rwandan Patriotic Front, the French peace-keepers avoided the political pitfalls. They saved thousands of Hutus and Tutsis from slaughter and stemmed much of the refugee outflow from that part of Rwanda where they were present. French forces and humanitarian agencies were positioned to provide immediate help inside Zaire to the overwhelming exodus of hysterical Hutus, driven across the border by the same so-called Hutu leaders who had so cynically and deliberately started what became ethnic genocide of unimagined magnitude and savagery.
The current response of the U.S. and other governments is a powerful one. The humanitarian capability and commitment of U.S. military forces is again showing itself to be awe-inspiring. However, the overall international effort will need to be a sustained one, since months will be required to stabilize conditions inside Rwanda, somehow neutralize the political and military remnants of the former Hutu regime and persuade the refugees to return home. During this period, large-scale humanitarian assistance must be sustained. Only the West can make this happen.
As the international effort continues, success will require intelligent, concerted political action by Rwanda's new government and its neighbors -- most notably Zaire, Uganda and Tanzania -- with support from the Organization for African Unity (OAU), the U.N. system, concerned governments and nongovernmental organizations. Particular care must be taken by outsiders to avoid imposing solutions upon Rwanda and its fragile new government, even while encouraging the creation of stability, the advancement of human rights and the development of representative political institutions. A start is being made in meetings between Rwanda's new president and those of neighboring states. But a coherent strategy and much more intensive political action will be required.
The OAU and regional African governments must accept the responsibility for dealing with the numerous armed and ruthless Hutus from the former regime who have moved to Zaire. In the short term they must be prevented from terrorizing the refugees and disrupting relief and return activities. In the longer term they must be prevented from organizing to return and seize power by force. Also, the threat they pose to international civilian and military humanitarian workers cannot be ignored. Nor can the possibility of casualties. If casualties among humanitarian workers should occur, the American people need to recognize that the cause is worth the price. But to minimize the threat, an early start must be made on disarmament. Outside states and organizations can help, but they would be making a major mistake if they either took the lead in such highly political activities or ignored the need for them. This crucial aspect of the overall problem can best be resolved by African leadership.
The writer was President Bush's and President Clinton's special envoy for Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

