



Download Request: Current Category: (373)
Time Of Request: Sunday, November 25, 2018  15:26:08 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY
STANFORD, CA 30309


Terms: (((refugee OR refugees) AND (United States OR America) AND (Europe)))


Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers;US Law Reviews and Journals, Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Company Profiles and Directories
Combined Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers;US Law Reviews and Journals, Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Company Profiles and Directories
Project ID: 


11 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Daily News (New York)

December 21, 2015 Monday  
SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Cheap talk, real suffering

BYLINE: NLVL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 442 words

Whether they consider themselves allies of Democrats or of Republicans as the parties trade barbs over the need to welcome - or block - Syrian refugees, the American people should understand that both sides are engaged in a callous and cynical political tug of war. 
Consider:
When, back in September, the image of 3-year-old Aylan Kurdi's body, washed up on the beaches of Turkey, shocked America's collective conscience, the Syrian civil war had been raging for about four years.
Over these four years, all under President Obama, America had taken in 1,545 refugees - fewer than Greece has received in an hour.
Obama had been sending planes to drop bombs and money to help other countries house those displaced, but that was all. He said little about these poor souls to the American people and offered almost none of them shelter.
Nearly 5 million Syrians had been forced to flee butcher Bashar Assad's chemical attacks, barrel bombs and prisons where guards casually torture, rape and murder. And to flee ISIS' head-chopping, woman-oppressing so-called caliphate.
Such was the brutality and oppression that men, women and children left behind their homes, their property and their native soil, risking their lives to leave this war.
Few here said, let alone did, much about it. Our commander-in-chief left it to other nations to take in those souls. Few Americans objected.
Then came Aylan, and then the Paris attacks, and San Bernardino - which have unleashed a torrent of partisan political opportunism masquerading as acts of great moral fortitude.
Obama, holding himself up as a paragon of human freedom, pledges to offer shelter to 10,000 Syrian refugees next year - four times more than we've let in to date but still less than Jordan has received in a day.
Republicans respond by tarring all refugees, and especially Muslim ones, as a danger. Chris Christie said even 5-year-old orphans were too risky for us to rescue. Obscene.
Still, there are real security concerns. In Germany, police Thursday arrested a refugee they believe to have ISIS ties. In Austria, two people with fake Syrian passports were arrested at a refugee camp last week on suspicion of involvement in the Paris attacks. At least one of the Paris attackers came to Europe posing as a refugee.
Rather than answering legitimate worries with a solemn and credible pledge that America's security screening will rise to meet the moment, Obama has mocked Republicans as "un-American," saying they're "scared of widows and orphans coming into the United States of America."
The President and the Republicans alike are playing domestic politics with the lives of desperate human beings. It reeks.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

15 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Daily News (New York)

September 21, 2015 Monday  
METRO EDITION

Help is on way Kerry: U.S. to let in thousands more Syrians

BYLINE: BY GINGER ADAMS OTIS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS With News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 374 words

THOUSANDS OF refugees will get a new lease on life in America, Secretary of State Kerry said Sunday - with as many as 100,000 coming to the U.S. by 2017. 
Speaking at a meeting with Germany's foreign minister in Berlin, Kerry said the U.S. will allow 85,000 refugees from around the world to resettle in America next year.
The majority of them would be from Syria, he said.
The total number of refugees would rise to 100,000 by 2017 - with some coming from war-torn parts of Africa, Kerry said.
The White House had previously said it would allow 10,000 additional Syrian refugees over the next 12 months. America took in 70,000 last year.
Kerry cited post-9/11 security concerns and lack of funding from Congress to broaden background checks as the reason America couldn't handle more.
"We're doing what we know we can manage immediately," he said.
His words got a rapid response from Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), who head the judiciary committees in Congress.
"The administration has essentially given the American people a 'trust me.' That isn't good enough," the lawmakers said.
Kerry's comments came amid news of yet another migrant tragedy in the Aegean Sea.
Thirteen asylum seekers died Sunday, and an additional 27 were missing, when their boat collided with a ferry near the Greek island of Lesbos, authorities said.
Rescue boats plucked 29 refugees from the choppy waters - the second time in as many days emergency craft had to be deployed.
A 5-year-old girl drowned and as many as 12 were missing Saturday when another boat carrying migrants capsized near Lesbos.
Refugees have been braving the dangerous crossing rather than risk war and terror at home.
But the situation in Europe is increasingly tenuous for the hordes of migrants headed there.
Hungary, the main point of entry on land, shut its border with Serbia on Sept. 15 - setting off a stampede to the borders of Croatia and Slovenia as desperate migrants looked for another way to cross into the European Union.
Thousands are on the move all over southeastern Europe as authorities struggle to respond.
And 11,000 migrants crossed from Hungary into Austria in the 24-hour period ended at midnight Saturday, with at least an additional 7,000 expected Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Syrian woman and child on Greek island of Lesbos. At least 13 others didn't get that far, killed when their boat collided with ferry of isle's coast. REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

18 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Daily News (New York)

September 8, 2015 Tuesday  
SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

Step up, U.S. Urged to do more as U.K., France take in migrants

BYLINE: BY ELAINE COBBE in Vienna and REUVEN BLAU NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 458 words

FRANCE AND Britain offered to welcome a combined 44,000 Syrian refugees over the next five years, as a former State Department official said the United States needs to do more. 
Nicholas Burns, the former U.S. ambassador to NATO, said America has historically offered refuge for migrants during a crisis.
Amnesty International estimates that 4 million refugees have fled war-torn Syria. The United States has so far accepted 1,500 of the refugees. That number is expected to rise to 8,000 in 2016.
"We're the wealthiest country in the world," Burns told CNN Monday. "We're an immigrant nation. We're a refugee nation. . . . The United States needs to do much more."
Burns noted that historically in humanitarian crises, the United States takes half of all the refugees that the United Nations calls to be resettled.
The UN is seeking to find havens for 130,000 Syrian refugees by the end of this year. That would make the United States responsible for 65,000, with the figure expected to greatly increase, Burns said.
French President Francois Hollande (below) on Monday announced that his country would offer 24,000 refugees asylum from their camps in Syria, Turkey and Jordan over the next two years. The socialist leader said taking in those fleeing war is a duty that France is ready to shoulder.
British Prime Minister David Cameron (below) said the U.K. will accept up to 20,000 refugees over the next five years. The dual announcements follow a pledge of a $6.6 billion aid package made by Germany late Sunday night to help provide asylum seekers with housing and other assistance.
Germany and France are urging the EU to create a quota system to more evenly distribute the growing sea of migrants flooding Europe.
"Germany is a country willing to take people in, but refugees can be received in all countries of the European Union in such a way that they can find refuge from civil war and from prosecution," German Chancellor Angela Merkel told reporters in Berlin on Monday.
But the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, said more still needs to be done to handle Europe's worst migration crisis since World War II.
"Churches will also help meet urgent needs of those coming to the U.K. and support coherent, credible, compassionate policy," Welby tweeted Monday. "However 20K is slim compared with vast total human needs - may need to rise over 5 years if dire situation in local camps not tackled."
Still, thousands of weary refugees continued their grueling journey to find a better life in Europe.
Sadia, who declined to give her last name, passed through Vienna en route to Germany.
She fled Baghdad a month ago with 14 members of her family, including her 2-month-old son, Mohammed.
"In Baghdad, everyone is dying. It's no good anymore," she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Middle Eastern migrants, some with kids and babies in tow, trudge along train tracks in Serbia bound for the Hungarian border Sunday. Far r. inset, aid workers in Serbia carry loaves of bread toa refugee camp. [Francois Hollande] [David Cameron] GETTY, REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

19 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Daily News (New York)

September 5, 2015 Saturday  
SPORTS EXTRA EDITION

POLICY FROM HELL America shuns Syrians Migrants left in limbo March of desperation

BYLINE: BY DAN FRIEDMAN, JASON SILVERSTEIN and CORKY SIEMASZKO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS With Nina Golgowski, Seth Bookey and News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 764 words

GIVE ME your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free - but not your Syrian refugees.
While the European Union countries were belatedly mobilizing to take in hundreds of thousands of desperate Syrians, U.S. officials were talking Friday about admitting a paltry 1,800 by the end of this year - and up to 8,000 in 2016.
"We could do a lot more to protect those people," Secretary of State Kerry said Friday in a Huffington Post interview. 
But, Kerry added, "I'm not talking about taking (in refugees) on a permanent basis. We have huge refugee camps in Jordan, in Lebanon. They're spread more in the population. In Turkey, we have refugee camps."
Kerry's solution to the heartbreaking humanitarian crisis?
"It may be that we have to set up some sort of refugee camp structure for the time being in order to deal with it," he said.
Contrast that with Germany, which expects to receive 800,000 asylum applications this year and has already pledged to take in 35,000 refugees.
Or France, which has agreed to take 26,000. Or Spain, which vowed to shelter 16,000. Britain and Scotland have said they will allow 5,000.
And Poland, which has already taken in 300,000 Ukrainian escapees from the fighting in that country, has agreed to take in 2,000 Syrians, especially Christian refugees fleeing persecution by the Islamic State. Oxfam America has called on the U.S. to resettle 70,000 Syrian refugees. International Rescue Committee president David Miliband has urged the U.S. to resettle 65,000 Syrian refugees before the end of 2016.
Senate Democrats, including administration allies Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), have also urged President Obama to allow in far more Syrians. The U.S. should resume "a long tradition of providing safe haven to refugees," wrote Klobuchar, who likened the failure to help the Syrians to "the international community's tragic failure to shelter Jewish refugees fleeing the Nazi genocide."
But so far the White House and State Department have been cool to the idea of accepting more Syrians.
"The long-term answer is not refugee resettlement, whether in the United States or elsewhere," State Department spokesman John Kirby said recently.
In 2014, Obama pledged $1 billion in loans to Jordan to help it cope with its 650,000 Syrian refugees. The U.S. is also providing $75 million to Lebanon, which houses more than a 1 million Syrians.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said Friday the U.S. should "do our part," to address the crisis. But she did not get into specifics.
Not all the EU countries are welcoming the refugees with open arms.
In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban flatly stated that he doesn't want Syrians - especially Muslim Syrians - settling in his country. His parliament is considering penning up the tens of thousands of refugees already in Hungary in "transit zones."
Barred by the Hungarian government from boarding trains for the west and reluctant to register in a country that clearly doesn't want them, thousands of Syrians voted with their feet Friday and took off on a 110-mile trek to the Austrian border. "Why do they treat us like dogs, like animals," asked 18-year-old Salah Zooabie as he marched with all his possessions in a bag.
Late Friday, Hungarian officials reversed course and said it will send a fleet of buses for the refugees to take them to Austria. Austria's chancellor said his country and Germany will allow unobstructed access to his country's border. Meanwhile, a two-day standoff at a detention camp in Bicske turned deadly Friday. One of the 350 refugees who had broken through the police cordon collapsed and died. The name of the 50-year-old man was not released. The Syrians wound up there on Thursday after the train they thought was taking them to the Austrian border was diverted by Hungarian officials.
The International Organization for Migration reported Friday that more than 364,000 migrants - most of them Syrians - have fled to Europe this year.
Turkish smugglers capitalizing on the chaos in Syria have been charging the escapees thousands of dollars to make the treacherous crossing.
The European Union is struggling to get all 28 member countries to agree on a way to resettle the refugees.
Germany expects to face 800,000 asylum applications this year and is pressing other EU nations to do more.
"We will not cope with this task if we do not stop pointing with the finger at our neighbor," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said.
"Blaming one another will not lead us to get the problem under control."
csiemaszko@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrant holds sign at railway station in Budapest. At right, thousands of refugees barred from trains in Hungary start 110-mile walk to Austria. Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris Syrian migrant father (above) holds son in Hungary while awaiting bus ride. At left, boy pulls brother down Budapest street. PHOTOS BY RAY TANG/REX SHUTTERSTOCK; GETTY; REUTERS; AP; PHOTO COURTESY OF TIMA KURDI/THE CANADIAN

DOCUMENT-TYPE: FRONT PAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

20 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Daily News (New York)

September 5, 2015 Saturday  
SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

POLICY FROM HELL America shuns Syrians Migrants left in limbo March of desperation

BYLINE: BY DAN FRIEDMAN, JASON SILVERSTEIN and CORKY SIEMASZKO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS With Nina Golgowski, Seth Bookey and News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 791 words

GIVE ME your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free - but not your Syrian refugees.
While the European Union countries were belatedly mobilizing to take in hundreds of thousands of desperate Syrians, U.S. officials were talking Friday about admitting a paltry 1,800 by the end of this year - and up to 8,000 in 2016.
"We could do a lot more to protect those people," Secretary of State Kerry said Friday in a Huffington Post interview. 
But, Kerry added, "I'm not talking about taking (in refugees) on a permanent basis. We have huge refugee camps in Jordan, in Lebanon. They're spread more in the population. In Turkey, we have refugee camps."
Kerry's solution to the heartbreaking humanitarian crisis? "It may be that we have to set up some sort of refugee camp structure for the time being in order to deal with it," he said.
Contrast that with Germany, which expects to receive 800,000 asylum applications this year and has already pledged to take in 35,000 refugees.
Or France, which has agreed to take 26,000. Or Spain, which vowed to shelter 16,000. Britain and Scotland have said they will allow 5,000.
And Poland, which has already taken in 300,000 Ukrainian escapees from the fighting in that country, has agreed to take in 2,000 Syrians, especially Christian refugees fleeing persecution by the Islamic State. Oxfam America has called on the U.S. to resettle 70,000 Syrian refugees. International Rescue Committee president David Miliband has urged the U.S. to resettle 65,000 Syrian refugees before the end of 2016.
Senate Democrats, including administration allies Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), have also urged President Obama to allow in far more Syrians. The U.S. should resume "a long tradition of providing safe haven to refugees," wrote Klobuchar, who likened the failure to help the Syrians to "the international community's tragic failure to shelter Jewish refugees fleeing the Nazi genocide."
But so far the White House and State Department have been cool to the idea of accepting more Syrians.
"The long-term answer is not refugee resettlement, whether in the United States or elsewhere," State Department spokesman John Kirby said recently.
In 2014, Obama pledged $1 billion in loans to Jordan to help it cope with its 650,000 Syrian refugees. The U.S. is also providing $75 million to Lebanon, which houses more than a 1 million Syrians.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said Friday the U.S. should "do our part," to address the crisis. But she did not get into specifics.
Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris is offering to buy a Greek or Italian island to shelter refugees from Syria and other conflict zones. Sawiris, whose fortune is estimated around $2.9 billion, announced his proposal on Twitter. "Greece or Italy sell me an island, I'll call its independence and host the migrants and provide jobs for them building their new country," he tweeted.
Not all the EU countries are welcoming the refugees with open arms.
In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban flatly stated that he doesn't want Syrians - especially Muslim Syrians - settling in his country. His parliament is considering penning up the tens of thousands of refugees already in Hungary in "transit zones."
Barred by the Hungarian government from boarding trains for the west and reluctant to register in a country that clearly doesn't want them, thousands of Syrians voted with their feet Friday and took off on a 110-mile trek to the Austrian border. "Why do they treat us like dogs, like animals," asked 18-year-old Salah Zooabie as he marched with all his possessions in a bag.
Late Friday, Hungarian officials reversed course and said it will send a fleet of buses for the refugees to take them to Austria. Austria's chancellor said his country and Germany will allow unobstructed access to his country's border. Meanwhile, a two-day standoff at a detention camp in Bicske turned deadly Friday. One of the 350 refugees who had broken through the police cordon collapsed and died.
The International Organization for Migration reported Friday that more than 364,000 migrants - most of them Syrians - have fled to Europe this year.
Turkish smugglers capitalizing on the chaos in Syria have been charging the escapees thousands of dollars to make the treacherous crossing.
The European Union is struggling to get all 28 member countries to agree on a way to resettle the refugees.
Germany expects to face 800,000 asylum applications this year and is pressing other EU nations to do more.
"We will not cope with this task if we do not stop pointing with the finger at our neighbor," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said.
"Blaming one another will not lead us to get the problem under control."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP, Migrant holds sign at railway station in Budapest. At right, thousands of refugees barred from trains in Hungary start 110-mile walk to Austria. Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris Syrian migrant father (above) holds son in Hungary while awaiting bus ride. At left, boy pulls brother down Budapest street. PHOTOS BY RAY TANG/REX SHUTTERSTOCK; GETTY; REUTERS; AP; PHOTO COURTESY OF TIMA KURDI/THE CANADIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

22 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Gazette (Montreal)

May 2, 2015 Saturday  
Early Edition

Canada has been failing refugees; Policies just enrich smugglers

BYLINE: SADOWAY AND ANDREW BROUWER, The Gazette

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 653 words

We Canadians like to think of ourselves as generous and humanitarian, complying with our obligations and commitments under international law to protect refugees. In 1986, the Canadian people were awarded the Nansen medal for our assistance to refugees - the only time the medal has been awarded to an entire people. Yet even as we were opening our hearts and homes to the Vietnamese and Cambodian "boat people" after the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, our government was looking for ways to keep refugees from reaching Canada. For example, in 1979 Canada imposed a visa requirement for Chile to ensure that the steady stream of refugees from Pinochet's dictatorship would be cut off.
Quietly and systematically, in collaboration with European, Australian and U.S. allies, Canada has been closing every possible avenue of access for refugees. By doing so, we drive them into the hands of smugglers who are reaping profits at the expense of the lives of desperate people. 
When we learn of the origin of the latest drowning victims, it is clear that they are refugees. They are Syrians, Iraqis, Somalis, Afghans, Eritreans, Libyans - fleeing from the horrific civil strife and brutal repression in their homelands. If they reached our refugee hearing rooms, most would be recognized as refugees and granted protection. And for that very reason, the federal government's focus has been on keeping people from getting here in the first place. How is it done?
By imposing a visa requirement on anyone coming from a country that has any situation of civil unrest or human rights violations and then refusing to issue visas: This forces refugee claimants into the hands of smugglers.
By enlisting the aid of airlines and shipping lines, training them how to spot false documentation and fining them very heavily for permitting passengers to travel without satisfactory documentation, regardless of whether they are fleeing for their lives.
By "pushing the border out" through the multiple border strategy - ensuring that there are at least seven different border control points before a refugee reaches Canada.
By closing our only land border so that refugees travelling via the United States are ineligible to seek refugee status in Canada.
By changing the laws against smuggling so that they include people who assist refugees to reach Canada for purely humanitarian reasons, so the only option for the refugee is to go with the mercenary smugglers.
By severely penalizing refugees who come by "irregular means" - imprisoning them and denying them the opportunity to bring their family to Canada even if they are granted protection.
In 1951, after the Second World War, the countries of the United Nations adopted the Refugee Convention, recognizing the right of every person to seek refuge from persecution and the obligation of all countries to share in providing protection for refugees. We pledged that "never again" would we be responsible for closing our doors to the desperate and the persecuted, as we had done before and during the Second World War.
But preventing refugees from reaching our border violates the spirit of that convention. We have become a part of "Fortress Europe" and we share Europe's responsibility for the increasing reliance of refugees on smugglers, and the human tragedies that are happening in the Mediterranean "moat" around Fortress Europe.
To ease the pressure of the current emergency situation, we must respond positively to the urgent call by UN Special Rapporteur François Crépeau to join with the countries of Europe in a comprehensive plan to take 1 million refugees from Syria over the next five years. And we must re-think our refugee-interdiction policies and develop safe, fast, and legal ways for refugees and their families to secure protection in Canada. Geraldine Sadoway and Andrew Brouwer are refugee lawyers in Toronto. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Montreal Gazette
All Rights Reserved

27 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Gazette (Montreal)

August 14, 2010 Saturday  
Final Edition

Recent refugee ships on Canadian shores

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 246  words

The MV Sun Sea is not the first migrant vessel to arrive on Canadian shores. Here are some other notable examples: 
October 2009: A rusty ship with 76 Tamils was found off Vancouver Island. The men were held at the Fraser Regional Correctional Centre as their claims were processed. As of last month, all 76 were freed from detention and were abiding by conditions of their release while awaiting hearings for their refugee claims. The Canada Border Services Agency suspected 25 of the migrants were tied to the Tamil Tigers, but was unable to prove it.
1999: Four ships carrying about 600 Chinese passengers arrived in B.C. during the summer. When most of the occupants of the first vessel disappeared (it is believed most were smuggled into the United States), those from the three remaining vessels were kept in detention facilities in Prince George until their claims were processed. They were held about 18 months and most had their refugee claims denied.
July 1987: 174 Sikhs came ashore near Charlesville, N.S. They had apparently arrived via Western Europe where they were denied refugee status. Most spent about one month in detention in Halifax before being allowed to move to Toronto or Vancouver with a sponsor.
August 1986: 155 Tamils were found drifting in lifeboats after two days at sea with only water and a compass. They were all granted special ministerial permits to remain in Canada while their claims were processed. Within one year, half had settled in Toronto.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CHRONOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
All Rights Reserved

34 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Gazette (Montreal)

July 27, 2007 Friday  
Final Edition

West abandoned Mideast to deal with Iraqi refugees; Complaint; Syria says U.S. should do more - since it started war

BYLINE: STEVEN EDWARDS, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 342  words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

An international conference focused on the plight of millions of Iraqis who've fled the violence in their country said yesterday the world must do more to help - but added most of them should give up hope of being permanently resettled in other countries. 
Jordan, Syria and Iraq complained the West had abandoned them to deal with the bulk of the massive flight, but delegates to the day-long session in Amman issued a communiqué that suggested little would change.
"The real and effective solution to the problem of the Iraqis in host countries is their return to their country, Iraq," said the participants, who included the United Nations, Iraq and its neighbours, and major powers such as the United States, the European Union and Japan.
The UN refugee agency says more than 2 million of Iraq's
26 million people are in refugee camps in Syria and Jordan. The advocacy group Refugees International says "most ... are determined to be resettled to Europe or North America."
But the Amman communiqué said key to their future would be "a political process leading to national reconciliation."
With 1.4 million Iraqis in camps in Syria, Milad Atiya, Syrian ambassador to Jordan and head of his country's delegation, said the United States in particular should be doing more to relieve the burden because "its policy led the plight (they) are currently in."
The 750,000 Iraqi refugees in Jordan cost the desert kingdom $1 billion U.S. a year, said Mukheimar Abu-Jamous, secretary-general of the Jordanian Interior Ministry. He urged the West to "rise to their obligation" and resettle the largest possible number of the refugees.
The UN says the scale of the exodus is the biggest the Mideast has seen since the population shifts of mainly Palestinians at the time of the creation of Israel in 1948. But it will screen just 150,000 Iraqis this year for possible permanent resettlement - and pick only 20,000 of them.
The United States has pledged to take 7,000 of that group, while Canada - which says it was not invited to the Amman conference - will take 1,400.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 
Colour Photo: MUHAMMAD HAMED, REUTERS; Halah Abdul Kadhum, a 42-year-old Iraqi refugee, pours tea for her brother Asaad at her home in Amman yesterday. Kadhum has lived in Jordan since 1999 with her brother and her 13-year-old son, Ali. They are among more than 2 million Iraqis who have fled the violence in their homeland. ;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
All Rights Reserved

60 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 1, 2018 Thursday

Federal Register: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 Pages 55091 - 55092 [FR DOC # 2018-24135]

LENGTH: 609 words

Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:   Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 83 , No. 212 / Thursday, November 1, 2018 / Presidential Documents ___________________________________________________________________ Title 3-- The President [[Page 55091]] Presidential Determination No. 2019-01 of October 4, 2018 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 Memorandum for the Secretary of State By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), after appropriate consultations with the Congress, and consistent with the Report on Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 submitted to the Congress on September 17, 2018, I hereby determine and authorize as follows: The admission of up to 30,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest. This number includes persons admitted to the United States during FY 2019 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below. The admissions shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations: Africa................................................. 11,000 ...... East Asia.............................................. 4,000 ...... Europe and Central Asia................................ 3,000 ...... Latin America/Caribbean................................ 3,000 ...... Near East/South Asia................................... 9,000 ...... The number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2019 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members). Additionally, you are authorized, following notification of the appropriate committees of the Congress, to transfer unused admissions allocated to a region to one or more other regions, if greater admissions are needed for such region or regions.  
Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States, and I accordingly designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2019, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. persons in Cuba b. persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. persons in Iraq [[Page 55092]] d. persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location, in exceptional circumstances. You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.                                      (Presidential Sig.)                  THE WHITE HOUSE,                      Washington, October 4, 2018  [FR Doc. 2018-24135 Filed 10-31-18; 11:15 am] Billing code 4710-10-P    

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

63 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 16, 2018 Tuesday

White Examines LGBT Issues, Migration, Mobility and the Abolition of Borders

LENGTH: 575 words

Albany: The Hobart University N,Y has issued the following news release:  LGBT Autumn White GreeceIn July, Assistant Professor of LGBT Studies Melissa Autumn White and her colleagues in the new collaborative network, Feminist Researchers Against Borders, hosted the first FRAB Summer School "Taster." Held in Athens, Greece, the Summer School drew more than 30 participants from across Western Europe, Canada and the United States for two days of discussions among scholars, activists and artists around issues of mobility, migration and refugees.  Following the FRAB Summer School Taster, White and colleagues went on to the International Association for the Study of Forced Migration conference in Thessaloniki where they presented research on how policies related to the ongoing refugee crisis impact "differently marked populations," including women and LGBTQ people racialized as "migrants" and "refugees."  White participated in the panel "Feminist Researchers Against Borders: Reframing Debates on Mobility, 'Refugees,' and 'Crisis,'" a discussion that employed "feminist, intersectionally informed theorizations of crisis" to "decenter both Western imaginations of the 'refugee' and territorially bounded categories of citizenship."  "Our collaborative work as the FRAB pack challenges the dominant ways that what has come to be called 'the refugee crisis' has been framed," says White, who sees "policies, militarized borders and logics of austerity" as creating "patterns of mobility and immobility" for groups "racialized as potential threats and/or prioritized as desirable recipients of care.  
Across our various projects we argue for the practical possibilities of no borders futures as a means of achieving more just social relations beyond the nation-state."  White also presented work from her manuscript in progress at the IASFM conference. "Stranger Intimacies: Private LGBTQ+ Refugee Sponsorship Beyond Humanitarianism and State Logics," offered an examination of how private sponsorship has evolved into a key tool for resettlement for LGBTQ refugees in Canada, and theorized how it might become a site of politicization for more broadly challenging the nation-state's strict control over borders.  White joined the faculty in 2015 as the first full-time, tenure track assistant professor in the LGBT Studies Department, which was founded in 2002 as the first of its kind in the U.S. Prior to joining HWS, White taught at McGill University and the University of British Columbia, Okanagan, following a postdoctoral fellowship at Syracuse University and New York University's Center for the Study of Gender and Sexuality.  White published her first book, an anthology co-edited with Liz Montegary titled "Mobile Desires: The Politics and Erotics of Mobility Justice" in 2015. Her recent publications can be found in Women's Studies in Communication; Feminist Studies; Women's Studies Quarterly; Radical History Review; Sexualities; and Interventions: International Journal of Postcolonial Studies, as well as a number of edited collections.  Previously vice chair of the Sexuality Studies Association, White is co-founder of Feminist Researchers Against Borders, as well as a co-founder and former co-chair of the Gender, Women's, and Feminist Studies Ph.D. Interest Group at the National Women's Studies Association.  In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

66 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 26, 2018 Wednesday

Menendez, Albright OpEd: Lift the refugee cap, Mr. Trump. America needs more.

LENGTH: 1302 words

Washington: Office of the Senator Bob Menendez has issued the following news release:    U.S. Senator Bob Menendez and former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright today penned an op-ed for USA Today calling on President Trump to reverse his decision to cut the number of refugees allowed to the United States for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 to a new low of 30,000.         "As a refugee who fled from fascism and communism in Europe and became America's Secretary of State, and as the son of immigrants forced to flee Cuba who is now a U.S. Senator, we find it impossible to be coldly analytical on the subject of refugees. America served as a beacon of hope for our families, and we refuse to lose sight of the human consequences of turning away those forced from their homes," Menendez and Albright wrote. "As Americans, we now face a choice: Do we embrace the responsibility of refugee resettlement, live up to our best values, and in doing so continue to lead the world? Or do we follow down this dark and isolationist path, which will leave us morally and economically bankrupt, and alone in the world without allies or partners?"  Read the op-ed in its entirety here and below:  Lift the refugee cap, Mr. Trump.  
America needs more: Madeleine Albright and Bob Menendez  USA Today | Madeleine Albright and Bob Menendez  Every day, roughly 44,000 people around the world are forced to flee their homes because of armed conflict or the threat of persecution. There are now more forcibly displaced people worldwide than ever before, including many who cannot safely return home or remain where they found refuge.  The mounting toll of this global humanitarian crisis is impossible to ignore. But instead of stepping up to help, the Trump administration is once again fomenting nativist zealotry, inciting fear, and stepping all over America's historic commitment to refugee resettlement.  Since taking office, President Trump has sought to end U.S. refugee admissions entirely and has succeeded in slowing them down to a trickle. And this month, the administration announced that the annual ceiling for refugee admissions would be slashed to 30,000 -- an all-time low.  This repugnant decision turns our back on refugees precisely when U.S. leadership is most needed. It will do untold damage across the world, further undermine America's strength and blemish our global reputation.  Resettlement was a bipartisan source of pride  For decades, both Republican and Democratic administrations held our commitment to refugee resettlement as a point of pride, a reflection of our fundamental values, and a service to our strategic and humanitarian interests. Following the international community's tragic failure to shelter Jewish refugees fleeing Nazis, the United States has demonstrated strong global leadership by providing safe haven to the world's most vulnerable. We admitted thousands of the "Lost Boys" of South Sudan, airlifted Vietnamese after the fall of Saigon, and provided refuge to Bhutanese victims of ethnic cleansing and Kosovar victims of genocide. Following the worst terrorist attack on our nation's soil on 9/11, President George W. Bush set a refugee admissions ceiling of 70,000 and refused to cut it in the years that followed.  As a refugee who fled from fascism and communism in Europe and became America's Secretary of State, and as the son of immigrants forced to flee Cuba who is now a U.S. Senator, we find it impossible to be coldly analytical on the subject of refugees. America served as a beacon of hope for our families, and we refuse to lose sight of the human consequences of turning away those forced from their homes.  Refugees are not statistics. They are widowed mothers, orphaned children, and entire families who are victims of violence, extremist groups, and brutal regimes.  But we did not become a global resettlement leader out of pure altruism. By welcoming refugees, we have aided our economy, strengthened our country and served our foreign policy interests. We have helped those whose lives were in danger because they assisted U.S. troops abroad. Refugees have created diverse, thriving communities in places like Camden and Elizabeth in New Jersey and Denver, Colorado. They become deeply patriotic and hardworking Americans who return more in taxes than they receive in benefits and invigorate towns with new energy and businesses. They are our nurses, police officers, teachers, doctors, agricultural and retail workers.  Refugee resettlement also promotes global stability, and elevates our moral leadership in addressing the world's most complex problems. Countries such as Bangladesh, Jordan, Lebanon, Kenya, Uganda, Turkey, and Pakistan each shelter hundreds of thousands of refugees, and look to us for leadership as they face tremendous domestic pressure to turn away those fleeing violence and persecution. By rejecting our shared obligation to take an appropriate number of refugees, President Trump damages our ability to work with partners, undermines our credibility and cedes critical leverage to hold other countries accountable for their own response to this global crisis. And though the administration claims a strategy of helping refugees "over there," it has twice proposed slashing overseas refugee assistance by almost 20 percent.  Trump needlessly threatens resettlement  In 1980, the U.S. welcomed more than 200,000 refugees, and since then has, on average, admitted an annual average of 80,000 per year. Despite entreaties from nearly every organized faith community in this country, the Trump administration not only cut the 2018 limit for refugee arrivals to a shocking 45,000, it erected so many arbitrary hurdles that we will fall woefully short of that meager goal. And now, it has cut the ceiling even further for 2019.  Helped by the general chaos and whiplash of the Trump administration's foreign policy agenda, anti-immigrant hardliners have been able to push out seasoned professionals who understand the national security importance of refugee resettlement. At the same time, the White House has continued to publicly fan unnecessary fear over security and stoke economic resentment by routinely distorting the truth about refugees, refugee resettlement, and the Administration's own actions.  But missing from the administration's rhetoric are actual facts: that refugee resettlement to the United States is a longstanding humanitarian tradition; that refugees are still the most vetted category of any traveler to our country; and that refugees are more likely to be victims of crime in the United States than perpetrators. Even a report from this administration's Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which it later sought to repress, estimated the net positive fiscal impact of refugees in the United States to be $63 billion from 2005-2014.  As we confront a confluence of unprecedented domestic and international challenges, Trump's decision to lower refugee caps for next year is yet another stress test for our values.  We are a nation that has flourished because of our embrace of immigrants, dreamers, and innovators, and because of our belief in human rights and the dignity of all people. We must continue to be that beacon of light to the darkest corners of the world.  As Americans, we now face a choice: Do we embrace the responsibility of refugee resettlement, live up to our best values, and in doing so continue to lead the world? Or do we follow down this dark and isolationist path, which will leave us morally and economically bankrupt, and alone in the world without allies or partners?  Madeleine Albright was United States secretary of state under President Bill Clinton.  Bob Menendez represents New Jersey in the U.S. Senate, where he is the ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

72 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

August 6, 2018 Monday  
SOONER EDITION

PITTSBURGH WELCOMED HIM WITH OPEN ARMS; 
POLISH REFUGEES FOUND A HOME

BYLINE: Marella Gayla, PIttsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; THE DIGS; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 220 words

On Aug. 28, 1951, The Pittsburgh Press documented Czeslaw Sikorski's fifth day in the United States.
The paper's second page featured a photo of the 3½-year-old refugee enjoying a doughnut - a "new treat" for the "new American," the Press said. 
Czeslaw and his parents appeared in the paper 67 years ago, but immigration is far from old news. Czeslaw's story is worth revisiting during a tumultuous time in our history when migrant children have been detained in camps along the U.S. border.
Czeslaw and his parents were Polish refugees, forced out of their homeland during World War II. The National Catholic Welfare Conference brought the family of three, along with 538 other refugees, to the U.S. from a displaced persons camp in Germany.
The war displaced an estimated 40 million Europeans between 1940 and 1945, and western allies established displaced persons camps to house them in the postwar years.
Upon arriving in the U.S., the Sikorskis were connected with a sponsor, the Rev. Eugene Harkins of St. Anne's Church, who found a home for the family and a farm job for Czeslaw's father. Harry Sable, the owner of the farm, was charmed by the tiny refugee's athletic skills.
"It's unbelievable," he said. "The little fellow can kick a football farther than most men of 25. I think we've got an All-American on our hands."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: This weekly feature is taken from the photo archives of the Post-Gazette

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Pittsburgh Press: On Czeslaw Sikorski's fifth day in the U.S., the young refugee from Poland enjoys a doughnut. It was a "new treat" for the "new American," the Pittsburgh Press said in its Aug. 28, 1951, edition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.

87 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

June 21, 2018 Thursday

Countries should take in as many refugees as they can, Pope Francis says

BYLINE: Alessandra Tarantino | The Associated Press

LENGTH: 475 words

Aboard the papal plane o Pope Francis urged nations Thursday to take in as many refugees as they can integrate into their societies and to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life. 
Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children from parents who enter the U.S. illegally.
"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership of the U.S. bishops conference denouncing the separations as ''immoral."
On Wednesday, U.S. President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant children from their parents after being detained entering the United States without permission.
Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers' boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of rescued migrants.
He praised Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants rescued at sea and said all governments should take in as many refugees as their countries can handle.
"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution,
Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of reaching Europe and a better life.
"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said.
He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end up living in shantytowns.
The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and other abuse.
"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps of World War II," Francis said.
Francis' trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians, including by concretely working together for peace and justice in the world.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

94 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

May 1, 2018 Tuesday

Does U.S. have moral obligation?

BYLINE: Gillian Friedman Deseret News

LENGTH: 1358 words

By Gillian Friedman
Deseret News
SALT LAKE CITY - The first U.S. Supreme Court debate over President Donald Trump's so-called travel ban took place last week, and while justices won't make a ruling until June, the decision is playing out at a time in which the refugee crisis in one of the impacted countries, Syria, may be getting worse.
The justices heard arguments over the administration's ban on travel from five countries with majority Muslim populations - Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen. This follows U.S. missile strikes last month in Syria in retaliation for a reported chemical weapons attack near Damascus.
While missile strikes may be exacerbating the refugee crisis in Syria, the United States has accepted just 11 Syrian refugees this year, compared to over 15,000 in 2016 and over 3,000 in 2017, according to State Department figures. 
All of which leads to a pressing question: What obligation, if any, does America have to refugees fleeing countries where the United States is engaged militarily?
The 'Pottery Barn rule'
There is no legal obligation or provision in international law that requires a country to take in refugees, even in a case of war, says Ryan Crocker, who has served as a U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Syria and Lebanon.
But despite the lack of legal obligation, Crocker says that from 1945 onward, America has played a role of "international leadership" in refugee resettlement from countries where U.S. military forces were directly involved.
As World War II in Europe drew to a close, for example, American ground troops were given orders to be on the lookout for refugees, "to bring them in, feed them, bathe them, and keep them safe," Crocker says. Between 1945 and 1950, the U.S. admitted roughly 350,000 Europeans.
In the aftermath of the Vietnam War, the U.S. resettled refugees from South Vietnam who feared for their lives after the capture of Saigon by the Viet Cong ended the war in April 1975.
In anticipation of a catastrophic refugee crisis, the Indochina Migration and Refugee Act was signed into law in May 1975. The act provided over $400 million for the evacuation of 130,000 South Vietnamese from their home country, and their resettlement in the United States.
"It was a watershed moment for the United States in dealing with refugees displaced as a consequence of U.S. military efforts," says Jessica Darrow, a refugee studies lecturer at the University of Chicago School of Social Service Administration.
The Refugee Act of 1980 enlarged upon the 1975 legislation by standardizing resettlement services for all refugees admitted to the United States. This act became the legal basis for today's U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.
The policy remained consistent in its approach until the 9/11 terror attacks, when the refugee program was temporarily suspended, and then reinstated with new security protocols and lower admission rates.
Serena Parekh, Northeastern University associate professor of philosophy and author of "Refugees and the Ethics of Forced Displacement," says 9/11 had a profound impact on U.S. attitudes toward refugee resettlement.
Parekh says that pre-9/11, one of the central tenets of America's approach to refugee resettlement had been the "Pottery Barn rule," referencing a well-known incident in which Colin Powell warned President George W. Bush of the "rule" before the invasion of Iraq.
"You break it, you bought it," Parekh explains. "If you're invading a region and you do something militarily that has a negative consequence - no matter how good your intentions are - you have to fix it. You are responsible for remedying the harm if there were predictable, foreseeable consequences to your actions."
But Parekh says that 9/11 was such a "collective trauma" that the Pottery Barn rule was disregarded in the effort to fight terrorism and do "whatever it took to prevent (9/11) from happening again."
The 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq displaced approximately 1 in 25 Iraqis from their homes, according to a study by the Brown University Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs titled "Costs of War."
The U.N. Refugee Agency reported in 2015 that over 4.4 million Iraqis were internally displaced, and an additional 264,100 were refugees abroad. Between 2007 and 2013, just 84,902 Iraqis were admitted to the U.S. as refugees, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
She says the lack of consideration for the Pottery Barn rule could be clearly seen in the United States' treatment of refugees during the Iraq War, particularly those who had helped the United States military as translators.
In 2008, Congress created the Special Immigration Visa program to bring Afghan and Iraqi translators to the United States. But it was widely reported that bureaucratic delays kept some translators trapped in dangerous circumstances for years while waiting for their visas to be processed.
In 2015, nine Iraqi interperters who had been promised U.S. visas sued the American government to get their visa status resolved.
Parekh said the invasion of Iraq as a response to the 9/11 attacks was "seen as such a good, that the unintended, but foreseeable, consequences of the war - refugees - seemed like a small price to pay," says Parekh. Caring for the refugees who were created as a result of the invasion took a back seat, she said.
A moral obligation?
In Syria, America's moral obligation is less clear cut than other historical examples, such as the U.S. invasion of Vietnam or Iraq, Parekh says, because "it's not as clear that our policy or action - or lack of action - directly caused the refugee crisis."
But Darrow argues that "we have a moral obligation that extends far beyond just where we have intervened militarily," to all refugees worldwide seeking a safe and permanent home.
"Yes, we have a moral obligation when we have been part of the destabilization, that people have fled because of us, directly or indirectly. But we have a larger moral obligation to all of the world's refugees that we are not meeting," says Darrow.
Darrow says the decision- making of the United States should be guided by an insistence on human rights and a commitment to stopping the human rights violations that are occurring on a massive scale in places like Syria. She says that it is "not sufficient" for America to limit refugee resettlement efforts to those impacted by U.S. military intervention.
"We have a moral duty that extends to the worldwide flow of forced migration," she says. "Regardless of whether we're waging war on a country, we still have an obligation to be involved in refugee resettlement."
Looking forward
Though the Supreme Court's decision is not expected until later this summer, early analysis of last week's hearing suggests that the court's five-member conservative majority seemed prepared to sustain Trump's authority to impose the travel ban.
The decision is likely to have a profound impact on the nearly 13 million Syrians that are now on the run - including 5.3 million who have been forced to seek refuge in neighboring countries, and 6.1 million displaced inside Syria, according to the Pew Research Center.
Crocker says that in recent years, the United States has "sadly disengaged" from a leadership role in refugee resettlement.
"In 2017, we had 3,100 migrants drown in the Mediterranean (Sea)," he says. "How many times can you recall a U.S. Navy vessel sailing to the rescue of a floundering refugee boat? It's a nice round number. Zero."
Crocker says he was one of 50 senior former national security officials to file an amicus brief in support of the state of Hawaii and the Iraqi Refugee Assistance Project's lawsuit against the Trump administration in the travel ban case.
"I firmly believe that we are a nation of immigrants, that's who we are, and it's an obligation for those of us who feel that way to push back against those who try to change who we are as a nation," says Crocker. "No matter how much lipstick you put on it, it is still a highly discriminatory measure based on national origin and religion. And that's why it's in front of the Supreme Court."
Email: gfriedman@deseretnews.com
Twitter: gill_friedman

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

98 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

April 23, 2018 Monday

New School Co-Founder Alvin Johnson Honored in North Carolina for Saving Jewish Families

LENGTH: 351 words

New York: Union College has issued the following news release:  In 1939, nine Jewish refugee families were rescued from the Holocaust in Germany and settled in an obscure rural community of Van Eeden near Burgaw, North Carolina.  The heroic act was carried out by none other than the late Alvin Johnson, an American economist and co-founder and first director of The New School.  Johnson was honored posthumously for his efforts at a ceremony establishing a North Carolina Highway Historical Marker at Pender County Public Library in Burgaw in April.  
 Jerry Klinger, president of the Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation, who nominated the story for State of North Carolina; author Susan Taylor Block, who collected the family stories for her book, Van Eeden; and Michael Hill of the North Carolina Division of Archives and History, spoke at the ceremony.  Klinger explained that, in the beginning of the Holocaust, the U.S. State Department largely refused to admit Jewish refugees trapped in Europe to the United States. Johnson, he said, discovered a loophole.  "He learned there was a back door to saving life," Klinger said. "If a refugee was a farmer, the State Department was willing to let them come to America, even begrudgingly. Johnson's simple solution was to have Jewish academics classified as farmers."  For individuals he saved, many of whom were academics in Germany, adjusting to agrarian life wasn't easy. However, with Johnson's help and the support of the community, the refugees were able to get by.  Johnson's work to help refugees didn't end in North Carolina. Under his leadership, The New School established the University in Exile as a safe haven for Jewish intellectuals threatened by the rise of European Fascism. The University in Exile served as an institutional home to Claude Levi-Strauss, Erich Fromm, and Max Wertheimer, among others. It also laid the foundation for The New School to become the major degree-granting institution it is today.  In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

100 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

March 21, 2018 Wednesday  
MM1 Edition

We are Americans, not 'globalists'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 542 words

At one haunted moment in American history -- early in 1939, not long after Kristallnacht -- Sen. Robert Wagner, a New York Democrat, and Rep. Edith Nourse Rogers, a Massachussetts Republican, introduced a bill that would have allowed 20,000 unaccompanied Jewish refugee children into the United States.  
Opponents argued that Congress should focus on the welfare of American children, and that German refugees were a Trojan horse. The legislation died in committee. And most of the children, presumably, did not grow up at all. At the time, some 80 percent of Americans opposed increasing the quota of European refugees. Six years later, the Second World War was won. Here was a country that talked of "Four Freedoms" and dropped two atomic bombs. Having reduced the Axis powers to rubble and hunger, 90 percent of Americans supported the continuation of food rationing at home if it were necessary to help the starving people of Europe and Asia. The Marshall Plan poured about $13 billion into European economies. The Truman Doctrine set hard limits to Soviet expansion. NSC 68 defined a policy of containment that put American troops and ships on every strategic frontier. The Bretton Woods institutions fostered global economic cooperation. An extraordinary group of leaders -- politicians, military commanders, diplomats -- defined a practical and moral role for America in the global defense of free governments and institutions. This is what some now dismiss as "globalism" -- the combination of America's founding purpose with unavoidable international responsibilities. The postwar pre-eminence of the United States has been sustainable, not only because of our military power, but because the global order we shaped is not a zero-sum game. Both America and our allies benefit from American security commitments in Europe and East Asia. Both America and our trading partners can benefit from relatively free global markets. I have been asking myself: Why is our political moment not just pathetic but traumatic? America now has a president who is staggeringly ignorant of this history -- unfamiliar with its heroes and unmoved by its moral achievements. Donald Trump's view of the world is built on grievances. Once again, people fleeing from war and oppression are dangerous infiltrators. America wants its money back from free riders such as Japan, South Korea and Germany. The zero-sum game has returned. America only wins when others lose. The Trump administration is not only an affront to decency and the rule of law; it is an assault on America's self-conception. In Trump's view, the United States is a nation like any other nation, defined by ethnicity and oriented toward narrow interests. An American president not only admires Russia; he wants us to be more like it, in both conduct and self-image. Trump's form of extreme nationalism makes us ordinary -- just another power scrambling for advantages. As Truman might have said: To hell with that. We are the nation that liberated death camps, rebuilt our enemies, inspires dissidents, welcomes refugees, secures the peace on every contested frontier and seizes "the burden and glory of freedom." This does not make us "globalists"; it makes us Americans. © 2018, Washington Post Writers Group

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 Paddock Publications, Inc.

101 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

March 21, 2018 Wednesday

We are not 'globalists,' we are Americans As U.S. history attests, we are not 'globalists,' we are Americans

BYLINE: Michael Gerson For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 1572 words

By Michael Gerson
For the Deseret News
WASHINGTON - At one haunted moment in American history - early in 1939, not long after Kristallnacht - Sen. Robert Wagner, D-N.Y., and Rep. Edith Nourse Rogers, R-Mass., introduced a bill that would have allowed 20,000 unaccompanied Jewish refugee children into the United States. Opponents argued that Congress should focus on the welfare of American children, and that German refugees were a Trojan horse. "Twenty thousand charming children," said President Franklin Roosevelt's cousin, "would all too soon grow up into 20,000 ugly adults."
The legislation died in committee. And most of the children, presumably, did not grow up at all. At the time, some 80 percent of Americans opposed increasing the quota of European refugees.
Six years later, journalist Marguerite Higgins was among the first to enter the Dachau death camp as it was being liberated by the 42nd Infantry. She found the main yard empty. But then "a jangled barrage of 'Are you Americans?' in about 16 languages came from the barracks 200 yards from the gate. An affirmative nod caused pandemonium. Tattered, emaciated men, weeping, yelling and shouting 'Long live America!' swept toward the gate in a mob. Those who could not walk limped or crawled." 
It is easy to forget the epic scale of this transition. On the American side, the Second World War was won with a combination of idealism and unimaginable ferocity. Here was a country that talked of "Four Freedoms" and dropped two atom bombs. Having reduced the Axis powers to rubble and hunger, 90 percent of Americans supported the continuation of food rationing at home if it were necessary to help the starving people of Europe and Asia.
The Marshall Plan poured about $13 billion into European economies. The Truman Doctrine set hard limits to Soviet expansion. NSC 68 defined a policy of containment that put American troops and ships on every strategic frontier. The Bretton Woods institutions fostered global economic cooperation.
An extraordinary group of leaders - politicians, military commanders, diplomats - defined a practical and moral role for America in the global defense of free governments and institutions. "In natural abilities and experience," writes historian Paul Johnson, "in clarity of mind and in magnanimity, they were probably the finest group of American leaders since the Founding Fathers." Harry Truman lent his defiant moral sensibilities to the enterprise. Dwight Eisenhower matched humility with power. John F. Kennedy gave poetry to the struggle. "For it is the fate of this generation," he said, "to live with a struggle we did not start, in a world we did not make. ... And while no nation ever faced such a challenge, no nation has ever been more ready to seize the burden and the glory of freedom."
This is what some now dismiss as "globalism" - the combination of America's founding purpose with unavoidable international responsibilities. The post-war pre-eminence of the United States has been sustainable, not only because of our military power, but because the global order we shaped is not a zero-sum game. Both America and our allies benefit from American security commitments in Europe and East Asia. Both America and our trading partners can benefit from relatively free global markets.
I have been asking myself: Why is our political moment not just pathetic but traumatic? America now has a president who is staggeringly ignorant of this history - unfamiliar with its heroes and unmoved by its moral achievements. Donald Trump's view of the world is built on grievances - against migrants who corrupt our country and against foreigners who economically exploit it. Once again, people fleeing from war and oppression are dangerous infiltrators. America wants its money back from free riders such as Japan, South Korea and Germany. The zero-sum game has returned. America only wins when others lose.
The Trump administration is not only an affront to decency and the rule of law; it is an assault on America's self-conception. In Trump's view, the United States is a nation like any other nation, defined by ethnicity and oriented toward narrow interests. An American president not only admires Russia; he wants us to be more like it, in both conduct and self-image. Trump's form of extreme nationalism makes us ordinary - just another power scrambling for advantages.
As Truman might have said: To hell with that. We are the nation that liberated death camps, rebuilt our enemies, inspires dissidents, welcomes refugees, secures the peace on every contested frontier and seizes "the burden and glory of freedom." This does not make us "globalists"; it makes us Americans.
Michael Gerson's email address is michaelgerson@washpost.com
WASHINGTON -
At one haunted moment in American history - early in 1939, not long after Kristallnacht - Senator Robert Wagner, D-N.Y., and Rep. Edith Nourse Rogers, R-Mass., introduced a bill that would have allowed 20,000 unaccompanied Jewish refugee children into the United States. Opponents argued that Congress should focus on the welfare of American children, and that German refugees were a Trojan horse. "Twenty thousand charming children," said President Franklin Roosevelt's cousin, "would all too soon grow up into 20,000 ugly adults."
The legislation died in committee. And most of the children, presumably, did not grow up at all. At the time, some 80 percent of Americans opposed increasing the quota of European refugees.
Six years later, journalist Marguerite Higgins was among the first to enter the Dachau death camp as it was being liberated by the 42nd Infantry. She found the main yard empty. But then "a jangled barrage of 'Are you Americans?' in about 16 languages came from the barracks 200 yards from the gate. An affirmative nod caused pandemonium. Tattered, emaciated men, weeping, yelling and shouting 'Long live America!' swept toward the gate in a mob. Those who could not walk limped or crawled."
It is easy to forget the epic scale of this transition. On the American side, the Second World War was won with a combination of idealism and unimaginable ferocity. Here was a country that talked of "Four Freedoms" and dropped two atom bombs. Having reduced the Axis powers to rubble and hunger, 90 percent of Americans supported the continuation of food rationing at home if it were necessary to help the starving people of Europe and Asia.
The Marshall Plan poured about $13 billion into European economies. The Truman Doctrine set hard limits to Soviet expansion. NSC 68 defined a policy of containment that put American troops and ships on every strategic frontier. The Bretton Woods institutions fostered global economic cooperation.
An extraordinary group of leaders - politicians, military commanders, diplomats - defined a practical and moral role for America in the global defense of free governments and institutions. "In natural abilities and experience," writes historian Paul Johnson, "in clarity of mind and in magnanimity, they were probably the finest group of American leaders since the Founding Fathers." Harry Truman lent his defiant moral sensibilities to the enterprise. Dwight Eisenhower matched humility with power. John F. Kennedy gave poetry to the struggle. "For it is the fate of this generation," he said, "to live with a struggle we did not start, in a world we did not make. ... And while no nation ever faced such a challenge, no nation has ever been more ready to seize the burden and the glory of freedom."
This is what some now dismiss as "globalism" - the combination of America's founding purpose with unavoidable international responsibilities. The post-war pre-eminence of the United States has been sustainable, not only because of our military power, but because the global order we shaped is not a zero-sum game. Both America and our allies benefit from American security commitments in Europe and East Asia. Both America and our trading partners can benefit from relatively free global markets.
I have been asking myself: Why is our political moment not just pathetic but traumatic? America now has a president who is staggeringly ignorant of this history - unfamiliar with its heroes and unmoved by its moral achievements. Donald Trump's view of the world is built on grievances - against migrants who corrupt our country and against foreigners who economically exploit it. Once again, people fleeing from war and oppression are dangerous infiltrators. America wants its money back from free riders such as Japan, South Korea and Germany. The zero-sum game has returned. America only wins when others lose.
The Trump administration is not only an affront to decency and the rule of law; it is an assault on America's self-conception. In Trump's view, the United States is a nation like any other nation, defined by ethnicity and oriented toward narrow interests. An American president not only admires Russia; he wants us to be more like it, in both conduct and self-image. Trump's form of extreme nationalism makes us ordinary - just another power scrambling for advantages.
As Truman might have said: To hell with that. We are the nation that liberated death camps, rebuilt our enemies, inspires dissidents, welcomes refugees, secures the peace on every contested frontier and seizes "the burden and glory of freedom." This does not make us "globalists"; it makes us Americans.
Michael Gerson's email address is michaelgerson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

111 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

January 7, 2018 Sunday  
Regional Edition

A stealth attack on national identity

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 594 words

When President Trump capped the number of refugee admissions at 45,000 over the fiscal year that began in October - just over half the number admitted in President Barack Obama's last full year in office - it was seen as a setback for hard-liners such as Stephen Miller, the White House's domestic policy chief, who wanted to set the limit drastically lower, possibly even at zero, and a victory for moderates in the Pentagon, State Department and elsewhere. That interpretation now looks flawed.
By means of an array of bureaucratic maneuvers, plus a security review  of key countries ordered by Mr. Trump in late October, refugee admissions have plummeted to levels unseen in modern memory - and, for the first quarter of the current fiscal year, just a fifth the roughly 25,000 admitted in the same period a year earlier. At current trends, advocates say, the United States may grant entry to fewer than half the 45,000 refugees specified by Mr. Trump's limit; if so, it would be the lowest number   since the current program was established in 1980. 
That would render obsolete the assertion still in place on the  website of the State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration that boasts that America welcomes almost two-thirds of refugees settled in third countries, "more than all other resettlement countries combined." And it would be a milestone in the nation's ongoing retreat from its role as a great power prepared to grapple with the world's biggest flood of refugees since World War II.
The State Department cautions that the pace of refugee admissions may quicken this year. However, bureaucratic gears already set in motion are likely to stanch the flow of the world's most beleaguered people to U.S. shores for the foreseeable future.
A critical factor constricting admissions is Mr. Trump's 90-day                            review  of refugees from 11 mainly Muslim countries, most in the Middle East and Africa, which together have generated more than 40 percent of all those admitted to the United States in each of the past three years, according to an analysis by Reuters. (Those same countries also account for roughly 60 percent of potential future refugees in the pipeline - those awaiting interviews with U.S. officials or various clearances for admission, according to refugee advocates.)
The review, though partially blocked by a federal judge last month, effectively choked off the refugee flow by also imposing burdensome new requirements to what was already an arduous security vetting process - even though refugees have been responsible for few terrorist attacks in the United States and Europe. A knock-on effect was that in response to uncertainty and State Department warnings about dwindling refugee admissions, independent contractors that run several hundred refugee resettlement offices nationwide are downsizing, thereby shrinking absorptive capacity.
At the same time, Homeland Security cut its deployment of interviewers who fan out through strife-ridden regions of the world to interview prospective refugees. In some cases, the admissions slowdown meant that one or another of a welter of required clearances from government agencies has expired for refugees awaiting final permission to enter the United States.
The administration's tactics amount to a stealth war on a program that has embodied America's compassion and global leadership. It is an attack on national identity of a piece with Mr. Trump's hostility to other forms of immigration and a symbol of the country's withdrawal from the world stage.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2018 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

113 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 2, 2017 Thursday

We Cannot Remain Silent as the Trump Administration Shuts the Door on Refugees

LENGTH: 675  words


Washington: American Civil Liberties Union has issued the following news release:   
These words from a stranger comforted my grandmother, Chawa Guterman, when her boat first reached the United States in 1950. A 17-year-old Jew in Poland when World War II began, she had lost everything but her life at the hands of the Nazis. They sent her to a work camp away from the rest of her family, where she was worked to the bone, barely fed.   

After liberation, she was alone -- her parents and her six siblings had all perished in the Holocaust. She lived in a displaced persons camp in Landsberg, Germany, where she met and married my grandfather. Together they immigrated to the United States with the support of a U.S. based resettlement organization. When their boat first reached the U.S. shore, my grandmother took in the scene around her. People filed off the boat, charging into the extended arms of loved ones, waving hellos, and exchanging hugs and kisses.  
Eva Guterman  
She started to cry.  
A woman nearby approached her. "Why are you crying?" she asked.  
"All these people have someone waiting for them. No one is waiting for me," she said in Yiddish.  
That's when the woman replied, with the line that has been passed down from my grandmother to my father and from my father to me: "But darling, all of America is waiting for you!"  
Rescind the Muslim ban immediately
 Take Action Now
 Today that sentiment is all the more striking, particularly when the Trump administration is doing everything in its power to undermine America's commitment to refugees.  
After ordering a Muslim ban not once, but three times, the Trump administration added insult to injury, cutting down the number of refugees allowed in this fiscal year to 45,000. That's less than half of the previous year's limit. Last week, the administration dealt another blow to refugees, releasing new restrictions on citizens of 11 countries that will severely burden the resettlement process by causing egregious delays and denials.  
This is not the first time the United States has tried to prevent refugees in need from crossing its borders out of misplaced fear or hate. In 1939, the United States refused to allow the 937 passengers, almost all Jewish refugees, aboard the St. Louis to disembark in the United States. Two-hundred-and-fifty-four passengers were subsequently murdered in the Holocaust.  
Refugees have been through ordeals impossible for most of us to imagine. My grandmother was a teenager when she had to face the horrors of the Holocaust. Right now, the United Nations estimates that there are 22.5 million refugees under its mandate worldwide, more than half of whom are under 18. Of the people in need of resettlement, less than one percent are even resettled, and the United States takes only a portion of these as one of more than 30 countries to accept refugees.  
I am lucky that my grandmother survived the Holocaust. I am lucky that the United States did not continue that policy and decided to receive displaced Jews after the war. I am lucky that an organization similar to HIAS -- the oldest resettlement agency in the world whom we represent in our challenge to the Muslim ban -- was able to relocate my grandparents safely to the U.S. I am lucky that my grandmother was able to build a life in this country, raise a family, and see her grandchildren grow into the people we are today.  
But her experiences also serve as a reminder to do all we can to help others who may not be so lucky. As HIAS President and CEO Mark Hetfield wrote when we sued over the Muslim ban, "We cannot remain silent as Muslim refugees are turned away just for being Muslim, just as we could not stand idly by when the U.S. turned away Jewish refugees fleeing Europe during the 1930s and 40s."  
The ACLU will continue to fight any attempt to turn away refugees on baseless claims of national security and xenophobic rhetoric.  
Refugees are welcome here.  
In caase of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com    

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

114 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 23, 2017 Monday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Pages 49083 - 49084 [FR DOC # 2017-23140]

LENGTH: 668  words


Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:  
The President ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Presidential Determination No. 2017-13 of September 29, 2017-- Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Presidential Determination No. 2017-14 of September 30, 2017-- Presidential Determination With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 82 , No. 203 / Monday, October 23, 2017 / Presidential Documents ___________________________________________________________________ Title 3-- The President [[Page 49083]] Presidential Determination No. 2017-13 of September 29, 2017 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Memorandum for the Secretary of State By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), after appropriate consultations with the Congress, and consistent with the Report on Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 submitted to the Congress on September 27, 2017, I hereby determine and authorize as follows: The admission of up to 45,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest.  
This number includes persons admitted to the United States during FY 2018 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below. The admissions shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations: Africa................................................. 19,000 ...... East Asia.............................................. 5,000 ...... Europe and Central Asia................................ 2,000 ...... Latin America/Caribbean................................ 1,500 ...... Near East/South Asia................................... 17,500 ...... The number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2018 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members). Additionally, you are authorized, following notification of the appropriate committees of the Congress, to transfer unused admissions allocated to a region to one or more other regions, if greater admissions are needed for such region or regions. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States, and I accordingly designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2018, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. persons in Cuba b. persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. persons in Iraq d. persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador [[Page 49084]] e. persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location, in exceptional circumstances. You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                     (Presidential Sig.)  
                THE WHITE HOUSE,  
                    Washington, September 29, 2017  
[FR Doc. 2017-23140
 Filed 10-20-17; 11:15 am]
 Billing code 4710-10-P  

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

116 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The East Bay Times (California)

September 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump administration sets refugee admissions at historic low

BYLINE: Tatiana Sanchez

LENGTH: 674 words


HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration set a limit of 45,000 for refugee arrivals in 2018.

Citing safety and security concerns, the Trump administration said Wednesday that it will cap refugee admissions at 45,000 in the 2018 fiscal year, a historic low that refugee advocates say will exclude many of the worlds vulnerable populations.
Under the proposal to Congress, an estimated 19,000 refugees would be admitted from Africa; 17,000 from east South Asia; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia and 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean.
While stating the importance of the United States leadership role in humanitarian protection, the administration said during a news briefing that an integral part of this mission is to ensure that refugee resettlement opportunities only go to those who are eligible for such protection and who are not known to present a risk to the safety and security of our country. 
The limit is the lowest since 1980, the year legislation was implemented giving the president authority to determine a cap on refugees, according to the New York Times. The limit has never slipped lower than 67,000  the number that Ronald Reagan set in 1986  the Times said. In previous years, the U.S. had admitted an estimated 70,000 refugees annually. Former President Barack Obama had placed a 110,000 limit on refugees last year, in part to take in a growing number of Syrian refugees displaced around the world.
The announcement comes days after the Trump administration revealed new restrictions on visitors from eight countries  an expansion of the pre-existing travel ban that has spurred fierce legal debates over security, immigration and discrimination.
The new refugee ceiling is tragic and misguided, according to Mindy Berkowitz, executive director of Jewish Family Services of Silicon Valley in Los Gatos, one of just a few refugee resettlement agencies in Santa Clara County.
Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area and beyond.
The people that were looking to limit are the people who are escaping terrorism, she said. They want to live in peace and freedom. When they come here, they are so enthusiastic and ready to contribute.
Berkowitz said the nonprofit is paid per refugee arrival.
If were looking at these historically low levels, we stand to lose from our budgets hundreds of thousands of dollars. It mostly impacts us in terms of the staff that we hire.
Santa Clara County resettled 134 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, according to data compiled by the states Department of Social Services. Berkowitz, however, said state estimates are inaccurate. Jewish Family Services alone resettled 105 refugees between October 2016 and September, she said.
Meanwhile, Alameda County resettled 127 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, compared with 28 in Contra Costa County, state data shows.
We have recognized for many years that offering safe haven to the neediest among us helps advance American interests abroad, and it is devastating to see the White House ignoring this fact, said Karen Ferguson, executive director of the International Rescue Committee of Northern California in a statement. Locally, the IRC sees refugees being welcomed into Northern California and then giving back to their communities and to the economy, and are committed to continuing that work.
In a joint statement with U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Michigan), Rep. Zoe Lofgren called the cap an affront to the United States legacy as a protector of oppressed people.
Todays decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time since World War II, said Lofgren, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. It is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values that make America great.
Federal law requires a cabinet official to consult with Congress before a ceiling is set. But government officials said the administrations briefing to Congress on the cap came just days before the fiscal year starts on Oct 1.
The Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

117 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Mercury News (California)

September 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump administration sets refugee admissions at historic low

BYLINE: Tatiana Sanchez

LENGTH: 704 words


HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration set a limit of 45,000 for refugee arrivals in 2018.

Citing safety and security concerns, the Trump administration said Wednesday that it will cap refugee admissions at 45,000 in the 2018 fiscal year, a historic low that refugee advocates say will exclude many of the worlds vulnerable populations.
Under the proposal to Congress, an estimated 19,000 refugees would be admitted from Africa; 17,000 from east South Asia; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia and 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean.
        Venezuela lashes out over travel ban          
        Supreme Court postpones hearing on Trumps travel ban         
        Trump replaces travel ban with new restrictions      While stating the importance of the United States leadership role in humanitarian protection, the administration said during a news briefing that an integral part of this mission is to ensure that refugee resettlement opportunities only go to those who are eligible for such protection and who are not known to present a risk to the safety and security of our country.
The limit is the lowest since 1980, the year legislation was implemented giving the president authority to determine a cap on refugees, according to the New York Times. The limit has never slipped lower than 67,000  the number that Ronald Reagan set in 1986  the Times said. In previous years, the U.S. had admitted an estimated 70,000 refugees annually. Former President Barack Obama had placed a 110,000 limit on refugees last year, in part to take in a growing number of Syrian refugees displaced around the world.
The announcement comes days after the Trump administration revealed new restrictions on visitors from eight countries  an expansion of the pre-existing travel ban that has spurred fierce legal debates over security, immigration and discrimination.
The new refugee ceiling is tragic and misguided, according to Mindy Berkowitz, executive director of Jewish Family Services of Silicon Valley in Los Gatos, one of just a few refugee resettlement agencies in Santa Clara County.
Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area and beyond.
The people that were looking to limit are the people who are escaping terrorism, she said. They want to live in peace and freedom. When they come here, they are so enthusiastic and ready to contribute.
Berkowitz said the nonprofit is paid per refugee arrival.
If were looking at these historically low levels, we stand to lose from our budgets hundreds of thousands of dollars. It mostly impacts us in terms of the staff that we hire.
Santa Clara County resettled 134 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, according to data compiled by the states Department of Social Services. Berkowitz, however, said state estimates are inaccurate. Jewish Family Services alone resettled 105 refugees between October 2016 and September, she said.
Meanwhile, Alameda County resettled 127 refugees between October 2016 and August 31, compared with 28 in Contra Costa County, state data shows.
We have recognized for many years that offering safe haven to the neediest among us helps advance American interests abroad, and it is devastating to see the White House ignoring this fact, said Karen Ferguson, executive director of the International Rescue Committee of Northern California in a statement. Locally, the IRC sees refugees being welcomed into Northern California and then giving back to their communities and to the economy, and are committed to continuing that work.
In a joint statement with U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Michigan), Rep. Zoe Lofgren called the cap an affront to the United States legacy as a protector of oppressed people.
Todays decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time since World War II, said Lofgren, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. It is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values that make America great.
Federal law requires a cabinet official to consult with Congress before a ceiling is set. But government officials said the administrations briefing to Congress on the cap came just days before the fiscal year starts on Oct 1.
The Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

118 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

September 28, 2017 Thursday  
Politifact.com Edition

PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP REDUCES REFUGEE CAP TO 45,000 FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018

BYLINE: MIRIAM VALVERDE

SECTION: POLITIFACT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 479 words

Limit legal immigration
"We will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers, the forgotten people. Workers. We're going to take care of our workers." 
* * *
Sources:
Subjects: Immigration
* * *
TRUMP-O_METER: IN THE WORKS
President Donald Trump plans to admit no more than 45,000 refugees from around the world in fiscal year 2018, a significant drop from the cap of 110,000 set for 2017 by predecessor Barack Obama.
The president, in consultation with Congress, determines the maximum number of refugees admitted into the United States per fiscal year. The 2018 year begins Oct. 1 and ends Sept. 30, 2018.
Here's the regional breakdown for top admissions in 2018:
· 19,000 from Africa
· 5,000 from East Asia
· 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia
· 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean
· 17,500 from Near East and South Asia
A ceiling of 45,000 refugees "is consistent with our foreign policy goals and operational capacity in light of additional security vetting procedures that we are implementing, as well as the domestic asylum backlogs that (Department of Homeland Security) is currently facing," a U.S. government official told reporters on Sept. 27.
The Trump administration is currently reviewing the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program and has started strengthening the refugee vetting process, officials said.
Reducing the number of refugees allowed in the country per year is one way to limit legal immigration. Refugees are admitted under a refugee status and must apply for lawful permanent residence one year after their arrival.
Trump earlier this year expressed support for an immigration bill from Republican senators to limit to 50,000 the number of refugees admitted per fiscal year.
Trump has also said via executive orders that the admission of more than 50,000 refugees in fiscal year 2017 "would be detrimental to the interests of the United States." At least 53,605 refugees have arrived in the United States as of Sept. 28, according to data from the State Department's Refugee Processing Center.
A refugee cap of 45,000 for fiscal year 2018 is nearly a 60 percent decline from the 2017 ceiling. This reduction is in line with Trump's promise to limit legal immigration.
We'll continue to monitor future refugee caps and other immigration measures seeking to restrict legal immigration. For now, we continue to rate this promise In the Works.
* * *
Sources:
State Department, Background Briefing: U.S. Government Officials On the Refugee Cap for Fiscal Year 2018, Sept. 27, 2017
State Department, Data on refugee arrivals
White House, Executive order: protecting the nation from foreign terrorist entry into the united states, Jan. 27, 2017
White House, Executive Order Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States, March 6, 2017
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Refugees, Last Reviewed/Updated: 03/23/2017

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIDEO: PolitiFact is tracking the promises of President Donald Trump. See them all at PolitiFact.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2017 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

119 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 28, 2017 Thursday  
Suburban Edition

U.S. plans to set record-low cap on refugees

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky;Carol Morello

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1026 words

Ceiling of 45,000 marks lowest total since 1980 law established program
The United States plans to accept a maximum of 45,000 refugees in the coming fiscal year, according to a report obtained by The Washington Post, a figure that represents the lowest cap in decades and one that human rights groups quickly condemned.
The State Department and Department of Homeland Security briefed members of Congress on the plan Wednesday. The cap, previously reported by the Wall Street Journal and others, is the lowest since a 1980 law created an organized refugee program. 
"It's a devastating blow to the U.S. refugee admissions program and this country's sense of self and history of compassion in welcoming refugees," said Naureen Shah, campaign director for the U.S. arm of Amnesty International, which had recommended a ceiling of 75,000. "It feels like a sharp betrayal, pouring gas on the fire that is engulfing the world. We see all over the world, ordinary people are being treated worse than cattle. For the Trump administration to become an accomplice to that is heartbreaking."
A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said authorities had "every plan to process as many refugees as we can under this ceiling." A White House official said: "The president's strategy on refugees is guided first and foremost by the safety and security of the American people. The United States can also help a larger number of refugees by resettling them in their home region and enabling their eventual safe return home."
The cap is for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 and ends Sept. 30, 2018. It calls for the United States to accept 19,000 people from Africa; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia; 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and 17,500 from the Near East and South Asia.
To the alarm of some advocates, the report said that when making decisions on whether to admit refugees, U.S. officials would "take into account certain criteria that enhance a refugee's likelihood of successful assimilation and contribution to the United States."
"I find that really troubling," said Melanie Nezer, an official with the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, one of the nine agencies working with the government to acclimate and resettle refugees.
Bill Frelick, director of the refugee program at Human Rights Watch, said that criteria was "completely irrelevant."
"Refugees are often traumatized and would not at first glance appear to be good candidates for immigration because they were selected not based on their immigration criteria, but on refugee needs," Frelick said. "And yet many of them have proven resilient over time and become very productive members of society."
A State Department official said: "This is not an additional requirement. Instead, it is an area of discussion that State and [the Department of Homeland Security] are exploring this coming year."
While the cap is low - it represents far less than 1 percent of the 22.5 million people counted as refugees - it does not necessarily reflect the actual number of refugees who are admitted to the United States in a year.
That figure fell below 45,000 during several years after the terrorist attacks in 2001. In 2002, refugee admissions plunged to 27,000 from 70,000, and to 28,000 the next year.
But since the law that let the president establish the cap, the ceiling has never gone below 67,000, set by President Ronald Reagan in 1986. The annual ceiling has fluctuated between 70,000 and 80,000 in recent years, until growing to 110,000 under President Barack Obama. Trump cut it to 50,000 midway through the current fiscal year.
A U.S. official said the administration believed this year it could "get into the ballpark of this ceiling."
The report said that in establishing the cap, the administration took into account prospective refugees who had been interviewed but had not yet arrived in the United States, historical data, and an analysis of the government's staffing needs and screening abilities. The Republican and Democratic leaders of the Senate Judiciary Committee, though, said they felt the administration had not sufficiently engaged with legislators before settling on a figure.
"Congress and the law require real engagement on this important subject," Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) and ranking Democrat Dianne Feinstein (Calif.) said in a statement. "An eleventh-hour meeting to check a legal box is not sufficient."
The report said that the refugee population has been increasing, and the United States, in particular, has been wrestling with more people who make their way to the country and seek asylum once they are here. The report said officials expect to have a backlog of more than 300,000 such cases early in fiscal 2018.
The report touts the United States' expansive role in resettling refugees, noting that it is the single largest donor to the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, providing more than $1.5 billion in fiscal year 2016. The UNHCR referred more than 90 percent of refugees for resettlement to the United States, Australia and Canada in 2016, according to the report.
Even at the reduced ceiling of 45,000, the United States will resettle the most refugees in raw numbers. But other nations, such as Canada, take in far more in proportion to their populations.
While the cap goes into effect Oct. 1, President Trump's temporary ban on refugees, inked in March, remains in effect until Oct. 24. That would keep out refugees without a bona fide connection to the United States.
While the administration recently unveiled a new entry ban affecting, in various ways, citizens of eight countries, the directive did not address what would happen with refugees. The refugee report references the new executive order, noting the administration's desire to improve screening and vetting procedures when it comes to refugees.
It is unclear if the administration will impose any restrictions on top of the cap after Oct. 24. A U.S. official said the administration was still reviewing current vetting and screening procedures, which are already robust.
matt.zapotosky@washpost.com
carol.morello@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

120 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 18, 2017 Monday  
Regional Edition

A new age of American timidity

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 574 words

PRESIDENT TRUMP wants to keep Confederate monuments where they are, but he may be preparing the ideological justification for removing a far more important symbol of enduring American values: the Statue of Liberty. Having already cut refugee resettlement by more than half, compared with the Obama administration, officials close to Mr. Trump are pushing for a further draconian reduction, to levels not seen since the Cold War. If Mr. Trump backs such a proposal, the message to those fleeing persecution and violence would be to shelter in place - any place, as long as it's not the United States. 
So much for welcoming the tired, huddled masses.
A report in the New York Times describes an initiative driven by White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller that would whack annual refugee admittances below the current cap fixed by Mr. Trump of 50,000, already the lowest number since at least 1980 and less than half the 110,000 that President Barack Obama set in his last year in office.
Mr. Miller is said to have urged a ceiling of 15,000 annual admittances, fewer than the number of new refugees fleeing persecution and violence  each day -  about 28,000, according to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. That hints at the administration's indifference to the world's refugees, who now number about 17 million (not counting Palestinians). Half of them are children.
The stated rationales for further refugee cuts - concerns over terrorists sneaking in, and the costs involved - are not defensible. In fact, both the Obama and Trump administrations have tightened vetting for refugees, who are now the subject of exhaustive background checks despite the fact that very few terrorist attacks, in the United States or Europe, have been carried out by refugees. As for the cost, most is borne by private resettlement agencies.
In fact, the Trump administration is waging a multi-front crusade against legal as well as illegal immigration, in which the president's stated compassion for "dreamers" - young undocumented immigrants usually brought to the United States by their parents - is the exception that proves the rule. Mr. Trump backs drastically cutting levels of legal immigration. He is appealing to the Supreme Court to uphold his ban on immigrants from six mainly Muslim countries. He has intensified deportation sweeps targeting not only criminal immigrants, but also law-abiding migrants who have lived in this country for years.
By adding refugees - by definition the world's most beleaguered people - to its lengthy list of undesirables, the administration would conflate what is essentially a humanitarian and diplomatic program with its anti-immigrant agenda. As former homeland security secretary Michael Chertoff argued in The Post on Friday, gutting the refugee program subverts the United States' security and economic interests while turning Washington's back on those brave enough to oppose the Islamic State and other groups antithetical to America's interests.
Republican and Democratic presidents have backed a robust refugee-resettlement program not mainly to make Americans feel good about themselves, but to bolster America's image as a confident, welcoming country whose interests span the globe. By rolling back refugee admissions to levels negligible when measured against the need, the administration would accelerate Washington's retreat from the global stage and inaugurate a new age of American timidity.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

124 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

June 22, 2017 Thursday

Washington: WORLD REFUGEE DAY

LENGTH: 815  words

DATELINE: New York 


Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following house proceeding:  
 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Gutierrez) for 5 minutes. Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Speaker, yesterday was World Refugee Day, a day set aside by the United Nations to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help.  
To mark this solemn occasion, today, the Judiciary Committee House Republicans will vote to slash refugee resettlement numbers, cut back aid to those fleeing violence and persecution for their religious or political beliefs, and make it harder for children fleeing violence, especially those from Central America, from receiving asylum from the richest, most powerful Nation in the world. Tell me, how does that make America great again, Mr. Speaker? According to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, there are more than 65 million people--a record number today--who have been forcibly displaced from their homes. More than 21 million are refugees. Eighty- six percent of the world's refugees are now finding refuge in the developing world, with only 14 percent finding refuge in developed countries like the U.S. or European nations. Worldwide, more than half of all refugees are children. So when anti- immigrant leaders, websites, and TV networks paint those fleeing the Middle East, Africa, and Asia as hardened jihadists, or those fleeing Central America as gangbangers and drug dealers, remember, most of them are just kids--little kids. That is what we are talking about, fleeing their country for their lives. Mr. Speaker, America has, throughout our history, been a beacon of hope to refugees fleeing religious attacks, facing government intolerance and persecution, ethnic strife, or unsustainable poverty. Beginning in the 1840s, when the potato crop disappeared because of a blight in Ireland, the Irish people were left starving. Over 8 million people in Ireland, 3 to 4 million of them faced starvation. About 1 million died mostly of starvation and disease. Another 2 million came where? To America. According to a recent article in The Irish Times: ``Panic had set in by the winter of 1846/47. People risked winter voyages across the Atlantic on unsanitary, unsafe `coffin ships.' '' The article continues: ``People were placed in quarantine stations, or held onboard ships docked at ports.'' ``Refugees experienced violent and racist reactions. Liverpool, Glasgow'' . . . ``Montreal, Boston, New York, and Philadelphia sought unsuccessfully to restrict entry'' of the Irish. A lot of this sounds familiar to me today when we discuss the Muslim ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its commitment to refugees, or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today, to punish children for fleeing for their lives. Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland. That is about 10 percent of the U.S. population. And let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what they consider their best people. They were poor, they were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said that they were sending rapists, murderers, and drunks, even as some, they assumed, were good people. They were from a religion that threatened the United States. They were Catholics who were as foreign to American Protestants, in some regards, as Muslims are today. But who can imagine America without the Irish today? You look down the list of generals, Presidents, Members of Congress, and every aspect of American society today, and we can all say, to some degree, we are Irish. As House Republicans vote today to pass bills to keep out the wretched refuse of your teeming shores, as we pass laws to pull up the drawbridge and put a big ``Do Not Enter'' sign on the Statue of Liberty, I hope my Republican colleagues who can trace roots back to someone who came across the water and risked everything and bet their lives on the United States, I hope all of us will reflect on those ancestors as we deliberate laws and how we would have kept so many of them out. [[Page H4998]] His Holiness Pope Francis, who we all remember just spoke steps away from where I am at right now, reminded us to always follow the Golden Rule in all our deliberations. Pope Francis said just this past Sunday that the nations of the world should continue to welcome refugees; and each of us, as individuals, can learn a lot by meeting with, speaking with, and breaking bread with refugees. His Holiness said: `` . . . personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity.'' Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues have been listening, as we have a Speaker who is both Catholic and Irish, but I fear they will not. 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

126 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

June 7, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: HONORING THE VICTIMS AND HISTORY OF THE MS ``ST. LOUIS''

LENGTH: 237  words

DATELINE: New York 


Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following Speech:  
 HON. NYDIA M. VELAZQUEZ of new york in the house of representatives Tuesday, June 6, 2017 Ms. VELAZQUEZ.  
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 78th anniversary of the day that 937 mostly Jewish refugees aboard the MS St. Louis were denied entry to the United States. In the summer of 1939, fleeing unspeakable horrors under Hitler's regime, men, women, and children set sail in search of refuge. After being denied entry to the United States, Canada, and Cuba, many refugees were eventually accepted into several European countries. Over a quarter, however, were not so lucky and lost their lives in concentration camps. The Brooklyn Synagogue Coalition for Refugees is one of many Jewish communities across the country that will gather to hold a candlelight vigil to honor the victims and history of this anniversary. At a time when acts of fear and intolerance have dictated policies to yet again shut America's doors to those fleeing harm, we must remain committed to ensuring that America is and will continue to be a place of hope and second chances. I'd like to thank the Brooklyn Synagogue Coalition for Refugees for their hard work and dedication to the Jewish community. As we reflect on this tragic occasion, let us recommit to ensuring that no one who is in desperate need is turned away from our country's shores. 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

129 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 3, 2017 Friday

What to do 2017: Europe

LENGTH: 814  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: American Enterprise Institute has issued the following news release:

  

 Europe's liberal democracies are under unprecedented stress. Its sources include the protracted economic malaise and internal dysfunctions of the European Union (EU), the refugee crisis, political extremism, and Russia's aggressive revisionism, which is actively undermining European unity and the perceived legitimacy of Western political institutions. The United States cannot solve Europe's problems in Europeans' stead, but through its policies the US government can help relieve the pressures created by Europe's refugee crisis. By making the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) [1] a priority, it can build an integrated Atlantic marketplace. 


 

 The United States can also strengthen NATO and help Europe's new democracies in their war of ideas against the creeping authoritarianism oftentimes sponsored by Moscow.
 What does success look like?

 

 We can claim success when:

 

     The immediate risk of a chaotic disintegration of the EU, under pressures from the refugee crisis or financial woes in the Eurozone, is gone;

     Governments in Central and Eastern Europe display unambiguous commitment to Western principles, high standards of liberal democracy, and the rule of law;

     The threat posed by the revisionist regime in Moscow is successfully contained; and

     A credible path toward membership in NATO and the EU is offered to countries on Europe's eastern periphery that show promise in transitioning to market economy and liberal democracy.

 

 What is our strategy for getting there?

 

 The United States cannot fix Europe's economic problems. However, by prioritizing conclusion of TTIP negotiations, the US government can help build an Atlantic space of economic prosperity, innovation, and growth. Even more important than the speed of the agreement is its depth and effectiveness in liberalizing sectors, including aviation, financial services, and digital markets--with workable data protection rules that do not hinder transatlantic business operation.

 

 The Refugee Crisis. Moreover, to relieve the political pressure on the EU from the refugee crisis, the United States ought to extend its refugee programs targeted at those fleeing the conflict in Syria, while addressing the security concerns behind the political opposition to accepting refugees from Muslim-majority countries. While the United States resettled only 1,500 Syrian refugees in 2015, close to 1 million asylum seekers arrived in the EU, primarily from Syria, Afghanistan, and Iraq. The Obama Administration welcomed nearly 40,000 Syrian refugees in 2016.

 

 Deterring Russia. Creating a credible military deterrent to Russian expansionism in Europe should be a priority for the next administration. President Trump should show America's uncompromising willingness to maintain a permanent military presence on Europe's eastern flank, while ensuring that the Europeans themselves are investing appropriate amounts into their own militaries.

 

 Integration. Integration into the EU and NATO has been a significant force for good across Central and Eastern Europe. The alliance should keep its doors open to prospective members in Eastern Europe and the Balkans, while holding them to high standards of democratic governance and military readiness. At the same time, the next administration should encourage its European counterparts to reinvigorate the EU's program of engagement with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine--known also as the Eastern Partnership. Its main role should be to offer a realistic path to EU membership for post-Soviet countries that display interest.

 

 The War of Ideas. Finally, the next administration will need to step up in the war of ideas. Since the 1990s, when aid to Europe and Eurasia accounted for almost a quarter of total US foreign assistance, the US has significantly scaled back society and democracy promotion programs in Europe. With liberal democracy under attack from the Kremlin-funded propaganda outlets and domestically grown extremist forces in many European countries, it is time for a comeback. Modest spending can go a long way in strengthening civil societies, journalism, and good governance in the European countries that need it most. To that end, the US should reform its federally funded international broadcasting along the lines of the proposed US International Communications Reform Act (2014), which would consolidate the governance structure of the current five broadcasters, which have overlapping language services. Furthermore, international broadcasting needs increased funding, particularly to renew operations in countries such as Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Romania, and the Czech Republic.
 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

130 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

February 23, 2017 Thursday  
SOONER EDITION

LET'S WELCOME THIS SYRIAN REFUGEE FAMILY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 196 words

I was heartened to read about the Khalof family in Sunday's Post-Gazette ("Syrian Family Begins Journey to New Life in Pittsburgh," Feb. 19). For those among us who have been concerned about what kind of vetting refugees receive before arriving in the United States, it should have been reassuring to read about the multilevel screening process that refugees endure before being allowed to immigrate. Based on that, I believe any ban on immigrants from Syria (and other areas of the Middle East) is both unwise and unnecessary. And, it's certainly not in keeping with the humanitarian ideals of this country. 
Kudos to Jewish Family and Children's Service for providing strong support to the family during its transition. Their work is a reflection of the warm and welcoming place Pittsburgh has always been for newcomers.
Our region has thrived over the centuries because of the influx of immigrants with a strong work ethic and a desire for a better life for their children. I expect that our latest immigrants, whether from the Middle East, Europe, Asia or the Americas, will contribute in the same productive way as our ancestors did, and I welcome them.
MAUREEN GROSHEIDER
Marshall

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Strasburg/Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: Jewish Family and Children Services senior refugee case worker Sawsan Alobaidi, 47, of Greentree, shows the Khalof family how to call 911 and what their address is as she helps them settle in to the house where they will be staying in Lincoln Place after resettling as refugees from Syria via Cairo on Tuesday, Feb. 8, 2017. Pictured left to right are Alobaidi, Nadar Khalof, 39, his daughter, Mays, 8, and his wife, Kholoud Alteara, 29. Alobaidi, originally of Iraq, was part of a team of case workers that greeted the family at the airport, helping them with their luggage and setting up the air mattresses in the children's room as the family prepared for its first night in the States. (Stephanie Strasburg/Pittsburgh Post-Gazette)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.

135 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 3, 2017 Friday

Faith Leaders Join Forces against Trump's Executive Order

LENGTH: 716  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 Thousands of faith leaders have voiced strong opposition to President Trump's executive order banning immigrants--including refugees-- from several predominately Muslim countries. Faith-based organizations from all around the United States drafted open letters to Congress and President Trump condemning the order. 


 

 In response to the executive order's implicit "Muslim ban"--a term that, while not stated in the order itself, was used by Trump advisor Rudy Giuliani to describe its intentions--more than 35,000 diverse faith leaders and supporters signed a letter opposing such practices: "Together, representing our various faiths, we decry derogatory language that has been used about Middle Eastern refugees and our Muslim friends and neighbors. Inflammatory rhetoric has no place in our response to this humanitarian crisis."

 

 The letter also called on America to live up to its ideals, emphasizing that "As people of faith, our values call us to welcome the stranger, love our neighbor, and stand with the vulnerable, regardless of their religion."

 

 Legions of national faith groups also released statements supporting refugee resettlement based on vulnerability--not geography or religion as indicated by the executive order. According to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, "The refugees fleeing from ISIS and other extremists are sacrificing all they have in the name of peace and freedom... Our nation should welcome them as allies in a common fight against evil... The actions of our government must remind people of basic humanity. Where our brothers and sisters suffer rejection and abandonment we will lift our voice on their behalf."

 

 The National Association of Evangelicals also weighed in: "Evangelical churches and ministries have long played a key role in welcoming, resettling, and assisting in the integration of refugees from various parts of the world. As such, we are troubled by the recent Executive Order temporarily halting refugee resettlement and dramatically reducing the number of refugees who could be considered for resettlement to the U.S."

 

 In addition to these Christian voices, more than 1,900 prominent Rabbis from the Jewish community voiced their concern: "We also know what it looks like for America to turn its back on refugees. We have seen xenophobia overwhelm our nation's capacity for compassion, and we have seen the doors slam shut in our greatest hours of need. Severe restrictions kept countless Jewish immigrants in danger, and too many people faced death in Europe after being turned away from these shores. We appeal to our elected officials to ensure that the refugee program be maintained and strengthened for refugees of all ethnic and religious backgrounds--not halted, paused, or restricted."

 

 The executive order also prioritizes resettlement of Christian over non-Christian refugees, a policy that some Christian groups consider "un-American." The National Council of Churches writes, "The president has stated his preference to come to the aid of persecuted Christians in the Middle East. The National Council of Churches, too, is deeply concerned about the plight of Christians and other religious minorities in war-torn regions. Our Christian sisters and brothers have been deeply impacted by anti-Christian persecution in Syria, Iraq, and other countries. Nevertheless, placing a religious test upon those fleeing persecution is un-American."

 

 Faith leaders continue to join forces, demonstrating their unity and quest to protect American ideals of diversity and religious freedom. At a press conference hosted by The InterFaith Conference of Metropolitan Washington, more than two dozen faith leaders gathered to issue a joint statement outlining "An Interfaith Vision for Our Community." At the event Washington Archdioceses Cardinal Wuerl said, "While we are very aware of the need for security, we also very much recognize that cannot be at the cost of a failure to recognize the needs of people being persecuted. We very strongly invite people who are suffering persecution to come and be welcomed by all of us." 

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

137 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

February 2, 2017 Thursday

Saved by entry to U.S. as refugee, suburban man speaks out against ban

BYLINE: By Kerry Lester klester@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 724 words

Saved by entry to U.S. as refugee, suburban man speaks out against ban
For decades, it was a secret tucked away and never talked about by Ralph Rehbock or his parents.
Then, Rehbock's children began digging into family history.
"Nothing, and I underscore that word, nothing, was said about our German life until my children were in high school and had to write papers about whatever may have been and chose to ask questions of their grandparents," Rehbock, of Northbrook, said. "And then everything started flowing out." 
The Rehbocks, who fled Nazi persecution as German Jews, were among a small number of refugees granted entry by the United States. They resettled in Chicago in December 1938 and later moved to the suburbs.
Others weren't so lucky. A half year later, most of the 937 passengers of the M.S. St. Louis, most of them German Jews, were refused entry to Cuba and the U.S. and forced to return to Europe, where hundreds died in the Holocaust.
"We were lucky enough by the virtue that the American government was letting a few of us in," Rehbock said. "But so many more thousands could have been let out of Germany, if the (U.S.) government had not done what it had done."
Rehbock, 82, reflected on his own journey this week, in light of President Donald Trump's executive order banning refugees from entering the U.S. and restricting travel for people from seven Muslim-majority countries.
He will speak at a news conference at 11 a.m. Thursday at the Illinois Holocaust Museum & Education Center in Skokie as one of a number of Holocaust survivors who are telling their stories in response to Trump's executive order.
After the German government banned Jewish children from attending school, Rehbock's parents began planning to leave their home in Gotha, in the center of Germany. Rehbock was 4.
Rehbock's mother, Ruth, traveled to Chicago in April 1938 to obtain documents to show the United States government that American cousins were planning to sponsor them.
"We physically hand-carried the documents to the U.S. Consulate in Berlin and then had to wait to get visas through a lottery system because there were so few spaces."
Records show that the United States, fearful Nazis could smuggle spies in along with refugees, tightened visa policies for a number of years as World War II unfolded. In 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, under pressure from the American Jewish community as well as government officials, signed an executive order that established a War Refugee Board for the "immediate rescue and relief of the Jews of Europe and other victims of enemy persecution."
Rehbock said his family was given a date of Nov. 10, 1938, to return to the consulate to get their visas. They arrived in Berlin the night before, which became known as Kristallnacht, a series of violent attacks on Jews throughout Germany and Austria.
"We could see the attacks on the synagogue across the street from our hotel," Rehbock remembers. "We got a phone call that they had come for my father back in Gotha. He would have been arrested if he had been home."
The family soon boarded the S.S. Manhattan, arrived in New York on Dec. 10, 1938, and made their way to Chicago, where they would live in the Hyde Park neighborhood near cousins Max and Mildred Schrayer, who had secured an apartment and jobs for his parents.
Rehbock started kindergarten the next fall.
"By then," he said, "my German language had gone away, and I started kindergarten like a regular American kid at Kenwood Elementary School." The family moved forward as Americans and tried to forget the past. Visiting Germany years later, Rehbock had several flashback moments, recalling jumping to get off the sidewalk as Nazi soldiers and their German shepherds passed through.
Rehbock went on to study engineering at Northwestern University, moving from Chicago to Highland Park to Northbrook.
It was after the Nationalist Socialist Party of America announced a neo-Nazi march in Skokie in 1977 that he became involved in the Illinois Holocaust Museum, where he is vice president.
"There is an absolute parallel with what we're going through right now, and we're learning to relive what happened in the past," Rehbock said.
"Those of us that are still alive that went through that are now feeling it again on behalf of others. They may not happen to be Jewish, but it's a very real feeling."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook looks through old pictures of his relatives from Germany. Rehbock was one of a small number of Jews granted refugee status to come to the United States during World War II. Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook looks through old pictures of his relatives from Germany. Rehbock was among German Jews allowed entry to the United States a refugee in 1938.Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook was one of a small number of Jews granted refugee status to come to the United States during World War II. He reflects on his experience, as well as President Donald Trump's recent executive order. Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook was among German Jews allowed entry to the United States as a refugee in 1938. Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook was among German Jews allowed entry to the United States as a refugee in 1938.Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook sorts through old documents from Germany. Rehbock was one of a small number of Jews granted refugee status to come to the United States during World War II. Steve Lundy/slundy@dailyherald.com Ralph Rehbock of Northbrook sorts through old documents from Germany. Rehbock came to the United States as a refugee in 1938.Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock This affidavit of support was filed by a cousin of Rehbock's who lived in Chicago. Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock This affidavit of support was filed by a cousin of Ralph Rehbock's who lived in Chicago. It allowed his family to enter the U.S. as refugees.Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's home in Gotha, Germany. Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's family lived in this home in Gotha, Germany. The night after the family left, Nazis came looking for them in the violent rampage of Kristallnacht.Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's father Hans' German passport. Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's father Hans held a German passport.Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's father Hans' German drivers license. Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock saved his father Hans' German driver's license.Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's mother Ruth arrives in the US in 1938 to process documents for her family to leave Germany. Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's mother Ruth arrives in the U.S. in 1938 to procure documents for her family to leave Germany.Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock This was the synagog Rehbock attended in Gotha, Germany. It was burned down on November, 9, 1938. Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock The synagogue Ralph Rehbock attended in Gotha, Germany, was burned down on Nov. 9, 1938.Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock's US citizenship document. Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock became a U.S. citizen in 1944 at age 10. Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock became a U.S. citizen in 1944 at age 10. Courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Ralph Rehbock became a U.S. citizen in 1944 at age 10.Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock Photo of Ralph Rehbock at 2-years-old in Germany. Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock A photo shows Ralph Rehbock at age 2 in Germany. Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock A photo shows Ralph Rehbock at age 2 in Germany. Photo courtesy of Ralph Rehbock A photo shows Ralph Rehbock at age 2 in Germany.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.

138 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 2, 2017 Thursday

Washington: Babin Issues Statement Supporting President Trump Executive Order

LENGTH: 385  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the MP Brian Babin has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who has been a leading critic of America's United Nations (UN)-led refugee resettlement program, issued the following statement today in support of President Trump's executive order on extreme vetting: 


 

 "I commend President Trump for delivering on his campaign pledge to put a common-sense pause on a broken refugee program and immigration system that has serious national security gaps and is in desperate need of repair.  

 

 "By temporarily restricting entry into the United States from several nations that were established as terrorist hotspots by the Obama Administration, President Trump is doing exactly what he promised the American people he would do - and that's put their safety, security and well-being first.  

 

 "This is not a radical idea.  In fact, polls show a majority of Americans support such a plan.  It is also not a new idea.  President Obama did the same thing in 2011 by suspending Iraqi refugee admissions for six months.  The Trump Administration has simply stepped up the screening of those entering the U.S. from these seven countries, which were designated as terrorism hotspots by the Obama Administration.

 

 "As I have been saying for nearly two years, the refugee resettlement program poses a clear and present danger to the American people. We were told by President Obama's own DHS, FBI and DNI Directors that U.S. intelligence officials cannot properly vet or screen refugees coming from Syria and other terrorist hot spots.  We have seen the deadly consequences in Europe as ISIS has already successfully infiltrated its refugee population.  Why repeat the same mistakes here?

 

 "As a compassionate Christian, I believe we can and should help displaced refugees by caring for them in safe zones near their own countries. In fact, for the cost of bringing one refugee into America, we can help at least twelve refugees in safe zones.

 

 "The President's executive order will ensure our U.S. intelligence agencies have time to strengthen the vetting system and close this gaping hole in our national security.  President Trump has my full support."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

139 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 2, 2017 Thursday

Washington: TRUMP'S REFUGEE EXECUTIVE ORDER: SEPARATING FACT FROM FICTION

LENGTH: 916  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following house proceeding:

  

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Babin) for 5 minutes. Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my fervent support for President Trump's executive order: Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry.  
I, along with many other Members of Congress, have been speaking out for more than a 1\1/2\ years about the dangers posed by our U.N.-run refugee resettlement program. I applaud President Trump for following through on his promise by imposing strict vetting for seven countries that President Obama labeled in 2016 as countries of particular concern for terrorism. Liberal activists and politicians are leveling baseless assertions about the Trump policy only to see a lazy and complicit media parrot their claims without exercising due diligence to validate it. To me, this is fake news. And in this incident, it is the mainstream media that is pushing this misinformation. Let's separate myth from fact and inject a little coolheaded commonsense into this national dialogue. Friday's executive order does a few things: It pauses the entry of all refugees for the next 120 days; it caps refugee admissions for fiscal year 2017 at 50,000; it stalls, for 90 days, the admission of foreign nationals from seven countries that are well established as terrorist hotspot countries; and it puts priority on highly persecuted religious minorities when the refugee program resumes. The media has echoed the protesters' assertion that this is somehow a Muslim ban. They are flat-out wrong. Remember, it was President Obama who created this seven-country list, not President Trump. If it were a Muslim ban, then why doesn't it include restrictions on the other 40 majority Muslim nations? That makes no sense. That is because this is a targeted approach to deal with the threat posed by terrorists who operate freely in these failed states and pose a direct threat to the American people. There is absolutely nothing in this executive order that says anything [[Page H825]] about banning any particular group of people. Another shortsighted fallacy being propagated is that President Trump is the only President to ever implement restrictions on refugee admissions. Conveniently forgotten is the fact that in 2011, President Obama stopped processing refugees from Iraq for 6 months after a terrorist plot was uncovered involving two Iraqi refugees who had come into the United States. {time} 1015 Previous Presidents of both parties have responded to global threats with refugee admission limitations, so characterizing Trump's actions is unprecedented, is simply fiction and a gross demonstration of partisanship. As ISIS has infiltrated the ranks of refugees in Europe, the President is similarly responding to global threats with the appropriate safeguards as he sees fit. This is something that he should be praised for--not condemned. The notion that the executive order is inherently un-American must be addressed as well. After all, America is the land made up of immigrants that has been a safe harbor to millions fleeing persecution around the world since her inception. But in order for this to continue, we must be vigilant to protect our homeland. America is the greatest Nation in the world, and if we let up on our pursuit of the highest national security standards, we will see this greatness slip away--to the detriment not only of all American citizens, but to the entire world. Finally, I must address the false notion that having a Christian ethic demands that we accept all refugees with open arms. Well, if that is the case, why aren't we opening the doors wide to the 60 million refugees worldwide rather than only a fraction of 1 percent? As a follower of Jesus Christ, I do believe that we should help those in need around us, and that America should be involved in helping the displaced and persecuted whenever we can. Perhaps a more compassionate approach might be to take the money that we spend settling one refugee in the United States and, instead, for the same price, provide for 12, for a dozen, refugees in a safe haven near their own home countries. Just as a father's primary responsibility is to care for his own children, the chief role of the President and other national leaders is to ensure the best interest of the citizens under their charge. If President Trump were to overlook the safety of the American people, it would simply be an abdication of his own responsibility that the American people elected him to do. It seems the President's opponents have cherry-picked particular Bible verses to suit their own political agenda, while ignoring other basic Biblical concepts of stewardship and responsibility out of sheer political convenience. To conclude, the hysteria surrounding this national security executive order must come to an end. After all, the main provisions of this executive order are temporary in nature and are in line with what many Presidents in the past have done. ISIS presents one of the most extensive and complex threats to our Nation, and we do want our President to take every precaution to make sure that Americans are safe. This--not the false narratives of Trump's opponents--must be the focus of the national dialogue, and we must share in what he is doing.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

143 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

February 1, 2017 Wednesday

A picture of shame

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 578 words

The image of President Donald Trump, flanked by Vice President Mike Pence and Defense Secretary James Mattis, signing an executive order that (among other things) excludes Syrian refugees from America, is indelible. Three powerful American leaders, targeting and dehumanizing some of the most vulnerable people on earth. A picture of bullying. A picture of cruelty. A picture of national shame.
It sits in my head beside images of Syrian refugees in Lebanon and Jordan, bewildered by the loss of their old lives, assets depleted, living (in some cases) eight to a room, exploited by human traffickers. Many families feel compelled to put their boys to work and their girls into early, forced marriages. "My home is all broken in Syria," a girl of 6 told me while coloring a kinetic picture of helicopters and bombs. Trump is a champion at punching down, but seldom this far. 
This executive order is a security measure that very few actual security professionals would prioritize, given that refugees are some of the most carefully vetted people who enter the country. Meanwhile, the downside of (in effect) targeting foreigners by their religion is immediate and considerable -- worrying American Muslims and embarrassing America's Muslim friends and allies in the world. When some radical cleric in, say, Central Asia, says, "The new American president hates Islam," he does not require a conspiracy theory to support his claim. And all of this may have been done with no security upside at all, given the utter incompetence with which the order was drafted, and the likelihood that the courts will prevent its implementation.
Trump came to power promising that masterful leadership would replace the "stupid" kind. This action was malicious, counterproductive and inept -- the half-baked work of amateurs who know little about security, little about immigration law, and nothing about compassion.
Trump's version of America is a normal nation, like Holland or Ghana, concerned with its own borders and business, and generally indifferent to the "way of life" chosen by others. But, to some extent from the beginning, the United States has been a cheerfully abnormal nation. American identity is not based mainly on blood or soil, but rather on the patriotic acceptance of a unifying creed. American leaders, Democratic and Republican, have believed that a world where the realm of freedom is growing is more prosperous and secure; a world where freedom is retreating is more dangerous. America found -- twice -- that it could not avoid the bloody disorders of Europe by ignoring them. It found that a Pacific dominated by a single, hostile power is a direct threat to its economy and security. It found that Russian aggression in Europe is like Newton's First Law -- moving until some force stops it.
And America has often accepted refugees, reflecting its deepest values and building reserves of trust and respect. The Soviet Union or Cuba under Fidel Castro were not working out unique and special "ways of life." They were producing fleeing victims. It is in America's nature to offer at least some of them a home and refuge. The same should be true for Bashar Assad's victims.
This is the difference a creed can make: When Ronald Reagan spoke on foreign policy, tyrants sat uneasy on their thrones and dissidents and refugees took heart. When Donald Trump speaks on foreign policy, tyrants rest easier and dissidents and refugees lose hope.
© 2017, Washington Post Writers Group

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.

149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 31, 2017 Tuesday  
The New York Times on the Web

Trump Hotels' Tweet Draws Backlash After Immigration Order

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg. 

LENGTH: 698 words

Amid the uproar against President Trump's executive order on refugees and immigrants over the weekend, one of his companies, Trump Hotels, learned a valuable social media lesson: All's fair in political warfare, including old tweets. (Just ask Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary.)
On Saturday afternoon, as protests grew at airports and courthouses, a 2011 Twitter post from the president's hospitality business caught fire with social media users who latched onto its once-innocuous inquiry, responding with stories of hardships that their refugee ancestors experienced to get to America. Others just made jokes.  
  ''Tell us your favorite travel memory. Was it a picture, a souvenir, a sunset?''
  That's what Trump Hotels tweeted in October of that year, adding ''We'd love to hear it!''
  Perhaps not, however, under these circumstances.
  My favorite travel memory? My grandfather landing on Ellis Island after dodging bullets on a farm in Eastern Europe. Thx for asking! https://t.co/FxAUh38Ei0 -- Nell Scovell (@NellSco) January 28, 2017
  Nell Scovell, the creator of ''Sabrina the Teenage Witch,'' provided an early model of the typical response to her 17,000 followers.
  Hundreds of refugee stories, which people said were lore, followed, with many users invoking the Holocaust or other political violence that they said brought their ancestors to the United States. Others took a more firsthand approach, describing their own relevant travels, while many people highlighted the protests that had swamped airports (and some Trump hotels) on Saturday and Sunday, as well as the earlier Women's March this month. Below are a sampling of the responses.
  Some poignantly evoked the past.
  Mine is my mother's story of fleeing Nazi Germany by train for Brussels where she lived in hiding until she could escape to US as a refugee https://t.co/w55C9ynjoo -- Susan Kandel (@susanrkandel) January 28, 2017
  @TrumpHotels My grandmother's travel to England, after being freed from Auschwitz. -- John Epler (@eplerjc) January 28, 2017
  @TrumpHotels 1922 when my grandma sailed the Haverford to flee violence - was welcomed in America openly by Republican president. pic.twitter.com/IRUFFpDtPj -- Matt Grocoff (@mattgrocoff) January 30, 2017
  Others were more personal.
  That time I fled Communist Romania to a refugee camp in Austria, came to America, & years later became an exec @Google creating 10ks of jobs https://t.co/iaerM5gLHc -- Laszlo Bock (@LaszloBock2718) January 29, 2017
  .@trumphotels It was to Iran and the Gaza Strip to meet the most amazing, friendly, and kind people I've ever met, anywhere. pic.twitter.com/cSxNOCQxBA -- Joe Damato (@joedamato) January 30, 2017
  @TrumpHotels Visiting San Francisco -- the American city my grandparents settled in after leaving the Philippines after WWII. -- Cate Sevilla (@CateSevilla) January 29, 2017
  Many shared protest pictures.
  @TrumpHotels It was that time this happened. pic.twitter.com/icc7BWDC1V -- Dan Fagin (@danfagin) January 29, 2017
  @TrumpHotels I traveled to LA last weekend, and it was so much fun. pic.twitter.com/sZigl4in40 -- Melissa Wantz (@mwantz) January 29, 2017
  this was nice @TrumpHotels pic.twitter.com/Yspley8X6b -- Seth Trueger (@MDaware) January 29, 2017
  And there was trolling.
  @TrumpHotels Mine is staying at the Four Seasons when I travel!impeccable service.Trump hotels are the Motel 6's of fancy hotels.Sad! -- Kaj-Erik Eriksen (@KajEriksen) January 28, 2017
  Of course, Trump Hotels is not the first brand or public figure to face an unanticipated barrage on social media. The New York Police Department (#myNYPD), McDonald's (#McDStories) and former President Barack Obama (#ObamacareIsWorking) have all had seemingly anodyne messages commandeered by the Twitter masses for other purposes.
  More recently, Mr. Spicer, President Trump's press secretary, had some of his old opinions -- on everything from Dippin' Dots to Daft Punk -- resurfaced as his public profile grew. (He was not a fan of the spherical ice cream.)
  As of Monday morning, the original Trump Hotels tweet had not been deleted, and the responses continued. The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/30/us/trump-hotels-tweet-refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company

151 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times - International Edition

January 30, 2017 Monday

Abandoned by America; 
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: BEN MCVANE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: Thessaloniki, Greece 

ABSTRACT
How Trump's executive order looks from a refugee camp in Greece. 

FULL TEXT
Thessaloniki, Greece - The refugee camp where I work as a doctor, in northern Greece, is seven hours ahead of Washington, so news of President Trump's executive order barring refugees for 120 days - and Syrian refugees indefinitely - came in the middle of the night. The next morning, it was the topic of conversation among the translators I work with. Given the enormity of our day-to-day tasks, they're impressively well versed in the news: I first learned about the draft order early last week from one of the Syrian translators in our group.
He made a point of mentioning Mr. Trump's promise to create vaguely defined "safe spaces" in Syria; I suspect this promise rings hollow, given that the Syrian government and Russia have shown no scruples about directly targeting hospitals and civilians, and the Islamic State acts without any regard for war conventions. Would Mr. Trump stand up to Vladimir V. Putin if the Russian president bombed a "safe space"? 
Another translator seemed equally unfazed by news of the ban, reminding me, "He's already been saying he was going to do this." His brother was recently resettled in the United States, and he will now likely be unable to visit his family if they are ever relocated in Europe.
For most people here, though, the news is not really news, just another rejection by the West - and they have enough to deal with already. Having fled the horrors of an endless civil war, many Syrians languish in purgatorial refugee camps.
The idea that these people present security risks that America's current, strict vetting process wouldn't identify is absurd. In camps outside of Thessaloniki, Greece, I have treated children with stomach pains and constipation because they avoid the infrequently cleaned latrines. Young men arrive in my clinic with bodies covered in scabies. A translator has explained to me that almost everyone in the camp sleeps late because their nights are ridden with nightmares and insomnia, unable to let go of the horrors they escaped.
These patients live in converted warehouses that provide only partial shelter from the biting cold outside. The harsh Greek winter has brought inconsistencies in running water and frigid trips to sinks and showers, but surprisingly little relief from the constant stench of nearby waste-treatment facilities.
Far darker stories loom beneath the common complaints of headaches, stomach pains and muscle strains. A formerly successful businessman fled the constant threat of kidnapping and violence. A university student was separated from his family after the locations of his school and family were divided by battle lines between Syrian government and rebel forces.
Since Western Europe and, now, the United States have largely closed their doors to Syrian refugees, Greece is overwhelmed, with over 62,000 of them. Some fled years ago, floating from one host country to the next without finding a clear path to a stable new life or a safe return to Syria. Some arrived in Greece days or weeks after the borders through the "Balkans route" closed, leaving them separated from family members now living in Germany and elsewhere. They wait without end to be processed through the slow-moving and bureaucratic United Nations relocation program, promised opportunities to find a job, send their children to school and regain some degree of normalcy in an accepting European nation. These relocations, which grant safe haven for men, women and children fleeing terrible misfortune, have been characterized by President Trump as "a catastrophic mistake."
Most refugees I speak with have resigned themselves to relocation to any country that will take them. They mention places like Ireland, Finland and Luxembourg as particularly desirable; nobody mentions the United States. The United States has accepted just a little over 19,000 Syrian refugees since the start of hostilities in 2011, a tiny fraction of the 4.8 million Syrian refugees outside of Syria, typically after an extensive two-year screening process involving multiple federal agencies.
The specific exclusion of Syrian refugees from the asylum process seems particularly egregious when compared with Greece's system, which streamlines the asylum-seeking process for Syrian nationals, acknowledging the obvious validity of their asylum claim. And while refusing their admission to the United States, the Trump administration simultaneously seems intent on undermining the United Nations, which facilitates the camps and shelters these refugees are stuck in.
It should go without saying, but the violence, extremism and oppression that Americans fear Syrian refugees will bring to the United States are the very same dangers that Syrian refugees fled their country to escape. The Trump administration is now completely closing the doors to honest people fleeing unimaginable conditions - people I know intimately, people who want nothing more than peace and opportunity for themselves and their families. If we let these policies stand, the United States will abandon any claim it holds as a moral leader in the world, and abandon millions of refugees to a life of pain and suffering.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
Ben McVane is a doctor volunteering with the Syrian American Medical Society Global Response.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

152 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 30, 2017 Monday

Trump's 'Muslim Ban' Goes Against America's Moral Fabric, Says CAP President Neera Tanden

LENGTH: 475  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Center for American Progress has issued the following news release:

  

 Today, on International Holocaust Remembrance Day, President Donald Trump issued an executive order to block nationals of seven majority-Muslim countries--Iran, Sudan, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Yemen, and Iraq--from entering the United States, suspend all refugees admissions for four months (120 days), block Syrian refugee admissions indefinitely, and reduce the annual refugee admissions target to a paltry level not seen since the enactment of the Refugee Act of 1980. This announcement comes at the end of a week that has been riddled with a string of attacks on vulnerable populations, starting with domestic enforcement that hurts those in the United States and now continuing to actions that hurt individuals overseas. Neera Tanden, President and CEO of the Center for American Progress, issued the following statement: 


 

     President Trump's order establishing his promised Muslim ban and crippling the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program comes on International Holocaust Remembrance Day and in the midst of the greatest refugee challenge in modern history. Sadly, this is consistent with the anti-Muslim themes pushed throughout his presidential campaign. To date, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has registered nearly 5 million refugees who have fled Syria's brutal civil war. Many of these refugees have sought shelter in other countries in the Middle East--as well as in Europe--and our global partners look to U.S. leadership in helping to share the burden of resettlement. Excluding people based on their nationality--to achieve, in effect, a ban based on religion--goes against the moral fabric of our nation and our national security interests.

 

     Through his rhetoric and his policies, President Trump is not only betraying American values but is also making every American less safe. It is impossible to combat terrorists effectively without the close cooperation of allies and partners who Trump is alienating, especially in majority-Muslim nations that suffer most from terrorist brutality. Trump's actions are also a boon for Al Qaeda and Islamic State recruiters who use him in their propaganda.

 

     Today's announcement is as counterproductive as it is dangerous. As CAP analysis has shown, refugees integrate well economically and socially over time. Doing what is right for refugees is good for America and true to our history as a nation that acts as a beacon of hope for the huddled masses around the world. Refugees are already the most heavily vetted and screened people admitted to the United States, so it is essential for us all to reject the false choice between security and humanity that President Trump is offering.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

154 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

January 29, 2017 Sunday

Washngton Post Editorial: Trump's refugee ban is pandering to fear

SECTION: OPINION; Commentary

LENGTH: 528 words

The executive order that President Donald Trump signed on Friday calling a temporary halt to travel to the United States from seven predominantly Muslim nations -- and indefinitely blocking refugees from the world's largest humanitarian crisis, in Syria -- is an affront to values upon which the nation was founded and that have made it a beacon of hope around the world. George Washington declared in 1783 that the "bosom of America is open" not only to the "opulent and respectable stranger" but also "the oppressed and persecuted." Now Trump has slammed the door on the oppressed and persecuted in a fit of irrational xenophobia. 
He ordered foreign nationals from Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, Yemen and Iraq be barred immediately from entry into the United States for 90 days while more rigorous visa screening is put into place. This touched off panic and chaos at airports on Saturday as people with already-issued visas were turned away from boarding flights and others detained on arrival. Among those caught in the mess and held at John F. Kennedy Airport in New York was an Iraqi who had worked for the United States in Iraq for a decade. Green card holders, already permanent residents in the United States who happened to be overseas, were told they could no longer re-enter. Untold thousands of people who have applied for visas -- including translators and interpreters who have worked with U.S. forces in Iraq -- were left wondering if they would ever make it to American shores.
Syria's civil war has forced about 4.8 million people to flee to neighboring countries, and 1 million are seeking asylum in Europe. Trump callously and without evidence declared that Syrian refugees are "detrimental to the interests of the United States," although in fact the relatively small number who have come to the United States have proven overwhelmingly positive. Trump's four-month ban on refugees from these predominantly Muslim nations was accompanied by an instruction to prioritize refugee claims made by religious minorities facing persecution, chiefly Christians whose communities have suffered greatly over many decades. We think there's a legitimate place in refugee policy for favoring persecuted minorities, but favoring one faith while blocking people from another is demeaning to all and runs counter to the basic tenet that the United States does not discriminate by religion.
Trump claims these seven countries might produce terrorists who "will use any means possible to enter the United States." The country that supplied 15 of the 19 hijackers in the 9/11 attacks is Saudi Arabia, which is not on Trump's list. Vigilance is always called for, but refugees to the United States are as a whole grateful and hard-working and have not resorted to terrorism. Cutting them off not only punishes the most vulnerable, but may encourage terrorist recruitment and violence.
Trump's actions pander to rage and fear of outsiders. Yet our long history shows these fears are unfounded. The diversity, experience and striving of immigrants and refugees have immeasurably strengthened the United States; outbursts of anti-alien sentiment have only weakened it.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

156 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

January 29, 2017 Sunday

Trump's order drawsjeers, some cheers

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 513 words

LONDON - Anger erupted on Saturday - along with some praise from the far-right - about U.S. President Donald Trump's ban on refugees entering the United States. 
Reaction from around the world:
French President Francois Hollande: Europe is facing a moment of truth. The issue is populism. What we are hearing from the U.S. encourages populism and even extremism. They are saying that Europe should not take immigrants, shouldn't stay together, not believe in climate change.
"We should engage in discussions (with the U.S.) that sometimes should be very firm. And as long as there are statements from the U.S. president about Europe, when he speaks about the model of Brexit for other countries, when the U.S. president talks about climate change ... saying he's not convinced of it, we should respond to him. When he takes protectionist measures, we should respond to him. When he destabilizes the economies of other countries, not only European ones, we should respond to him. When he rejects the arrival of refugees, while Europe has done its duty, we should respond to him."
Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim: "You cannot settle this (refugee) issue by building walls. Nobody leaves their homes for nothing."
Turkey has admitted some 3 million Syrian refugees since the start of the war in its neighbor.
"They came here to save their lives and our doors were open. And if the same thing happened again, we would do it again."
Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai: Donald Trump should not "turn his back on the world's most defenseless children and families." Refugees and immigrants, she says "have helped build your country."
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani: Those seeking to create walls between nations "have forgotten that the Berlin Wall collapsed years ago."
German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel: Love thy neighbor' is part of this (American Christian) tradition, the act of helping others."
French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault: "We have signed international obligations, so welcoming refugees fleeing war and oppression forms part of our duties."
The International Rescue Committee: The agency is calling President Donald Trump's suspension of the U.S. refugee resettlement program a "harmful and hasty" decision. IRC President David Miliband says "America must remain true to its core values. America must remain a beacon of hope."
Norwegian Refugee Council: Trump's decision "will not make America safer, it will make America smaller and meaner."
British Prime Minister Theresa May: "The United States is responsible for the United States' policy on refugees."
Israeli President Benjamin Netanyahu: Netanyahu tweeted that Israel's wall along its border with Egypt had stemmed a swell of African migrants: "President Trump is right. I built a wall along Israel's southern border. It stopped all illegal immigration. Great success. Great idea."
Far-right Dutch populist Geert Wilders: In a tweet, the Dutch anti-Islam populist Wilders, whose Party for Freedom is polling strongly ahead of the country's March 15 election, says: "No immigrants from Islamic countries."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 Woodward Communications, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

157 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 28, 2017 Saturday  
The New York Times on the Web

Donald Trump's Un-American Refugee Policy

BYLINE: By DAVID MILIBAND. 
David Miliband (@DMiliband), a former British foreign secretary, is the president and chief executive of the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian aid organization.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 990 words

President Trump's executive order suspending the entire resettlement program for 120 days and banning indefinitely the arrival of Syrian refugees is a repudiation of fundamental American values, an abandonment of the United States' role as a humanitarian leader and, far from protecting the country from extremism, a propaganda gift to those who would plot harm to America.
The order also cuts the number of refugees scheduled for resettlement in the United States in the fiscal year 2017 from a planned total of about 110,000 to just 50,000. Founded on the myth that there is no proper security screening for refugees, the order thus thrusts into limbo an estimated 60,000 vulnerable refugees, most of whom have already been vetted and cleared for resettlement here. The new policy urgently needs rethinking.  
  Refugees coming to the United States are fleeing the same violent extremism that this country and its allies are fighting in the Middle East and elsewhere. Based on recent data, a majority of those selected for resettlement in America are women and children. Since the start of the war, millions of Syrians have fled not just the military of President Bashar al-Assad but also the forces of Russia, Iranian militias and the Islamic State.
  There are also thousands of Afghans and Iraqis whose lives are at risk because of assistance they offered American troops stationed in their countries. Of all the refugees that my organization, the International Rescue Committee, would be helping to resettle this year, this group, the Special Immigrant Visa population, makes up a fourth.
  Giving haven for those persecuted for their politics is a core American value. The more than 62,000 Cubans resettled by the committee since 1960 would find this executive order's denial of refugee needs not just insulting, but bizarre.
  The order also suggests that the resettlement program should make persecuted religious minorities a higher priority, implying that they have been neglected in the past. This is incorrect; existing law already places strong emphasis on religious persecution among the criteria for resettlement. For example, most of the refugees from Iran -- a Muslim-majority country -- who are resettled by my organization are not Muslim.
  Compared with other types of immigrants, refugees are the most thoroughly vetted group to enter the United States. The resettlement process can take up to 36 months and involves screenings by the Department of Homeland Security, the F.B.I., the Department of Defense, the State Department and the National Counterterrorism Center and United States intelligence community. According to the Cato Institute, the chances that a citizen here will be killed by a refugee are one in 3.64 billion; an American is far more likely to be killed by lightning than by a terrorist attack carried out by a refugee.
  The United States can be proud of its wide network of refugee champions, for good reason: Refugee resettlement is an American success story. And this is true not just on the coasts but across the country. In the 29 cities where the Rescue Committee has resettlement offices, elected officials like the mayor of Boise, Idaho, and the governor of Utah, along with police officers, school principals, faith leaders and small-business owners, actively welcome refugees. They do so out of a sense of a moral obligation, of course, but also because they have witnessed the myriad ways refugees have enriched their communities over the years.
  To take one example, over the course of a decade, refugees created at least 38 new businesses in the Cleveland area alone. In turn, these businesses created an additional 175 jobs, and in 2012 provided a $12 million stimulus to the local economy.
  There is a further concern raised by the president's refugee ban. When the United States abjures its responsibility to the world's most vulnerable people, it forgoes its moral authority to call upon the countries of Europe, as well as poorer nations like Lebanon, Turkey, Kenya and Pakistan, which host over five million refugees among them, to provide such shelter.
  Historically, the United States has welcomed the ''huddled masses yearning to breathe free,'' and this has helped cement America's leadership of the international order. But why should others continue to bear their heavy burdens when the United States won't? Support for refugees is not charity; it is a contribution to the global stability on which all nations depend -- and this is especially important at a time when the world faces a heightened threat of terrorism.
  Terrorists are strategic in their work and their messaging. The civilized world must be equally strategic in its response. Where extremists seek to foster a clash of civilizations, democratic governments should not play into their hands.
  That is what a ban on specific nationalities does. It is not right, it is not needed and it is not smart.
  In 1980, when Congress passed the Refugee Act with bipartisan support, President Carter's secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Joseph A. Califano Jr., said the refugee issue required the United States to ''reveal to the world -- and more important to ourselves -- whether we truly live by our ideals or simply carve them on our monuments.''
  That still resonates today. Expert review of the resettlement vetting process is part of good government. Hasty dismissal of carefully developed systems is harmful in and of itself. It is also a distressing departure from fact-based policy making.
  The world looks to America for enlightened leadership. Its citizens seek the same from their government. Refugee policy is a telling test for every nation. The United States passed that test for so many years, so it is a tragedy for it now to fail when its commitment is needed more than ever.
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/27/opinion/donald-trumps-un-american-refugee-policy.html

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company

158 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 27, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST 

Donald Trump's Un-American Refugee Policy; 
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: DAVID MILIBAND

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1046 words


HIGHLIGHT: Freezing the resettlement program undermines U.S. moral leadership and national security.

President Trump's executive order suspending the entire resettlement program for 120 days and banning indefinitely the arrival of Syrian refugees is a repudiation of fundamental American values, an abandonment of the United States' role as a humanitarian leader and, far from protecting the country from extremism, a propaganda gift to those who would plot harm to America.
The order also cuts the number of refugees scheduled for resettlement in the United States in the fiscal year 2017 from a planned total of about 110,000 to just 50,000. Founded on the myth that there is no proper security screening for refugees, the order thus thrusts into limbo an estimated 60,000 vulnerable refugees, most of whom have already been vetted and cleared for resettlement here. The new policy urgently needs rethinking. 
Refugees coming to the United States are fleeing the same violent extremism that this country and its allies are fighting in the Middle East and elsewhere. Based on recent data, a majority of those selected for resettlement in America are women and children. Since the start of the war, millions of Syrians have fled not just the military of President Bashar al-Assad but also the forces of Russia, Iranian militias and the Islamic State.
There are also thousands of Afghans and Iraqis whose lives are at risk because of assistance they offered American troops stationed in their countries. Of all the refugees that my organization, the International Rescue Committee, would be helping to resettle this year, this group, the Special Immigrant Visa population, makes up a fourth.
Giving haven for those persecuted for their politics is a core American value. The more than 62,000 Cubans resettled by the committee since 1960 would find this executive order's denial of refugee needs not just insulting, but bizarre.
The order also suggests that the resettlement program should make persecuted religious minorities a higher priority, implying that they have been neglected in the past. This is incorrect; existing law already places strong emphasis on religious persecution among the criteria for resettlement. For example, most of the refugees from Iran - a Muslim-majority country - who are resettled by my organization are not Muslim.
Compared with other types of immigrants, refugees are the most thoroughly vetted group to enter the United States. The resettlement process can take up to 36 months and involves screenings by the Department of Homeland Security, the F.B.I., the Department of Defense, the State Department and the National Counterterrorism Center and United States intelligence community. According to the Cato Institute, the chances that a citizen here will be killed by a refugee are one in 3.64 billion a year; an American is far more likely to be killed by lightning than by a terrorist attack carried out by a refugee.
The United States can be proud of its wide network of refugee champions, for good reason: Refugee resettlement is an American success story. And this is true not just on the coasts but across the country. In the 29 cities where the Rescue Committee has resettlement offices, elected officials like the mayor of Boise, Idaho, and the governor of Utah, along with police officers, school principals, faith leaders and small-business owners, actively welcome refugees. They do so out of a sense of a moral obligation, of course, but also because they have witnessed the myriad ways refugees have enriched their communities over the years.
To take one example, over the course of a decade, refugees created at least 38 new businesses in the Cleveland area alone. In turn, these businesses created an additional 175 jobs, and in 2012 provided a $12 million stimulus to the local economy.
There is a further concern raised by the president's refugee ban. When the United States abjures its responsibility to the world's most vulnerable people, it forgoes its moral authority to call upon the countries of Europe, as well as poorer nations like Lebanon, Turkey, Kenya and Pakistan, which host over five million refugees among them, to provide such shelter.
Historically, the United States has welcomed the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free," and this has helped cement America's leadership of the international order. But why should others continue to bear their heavy burdens when the United States won't? Support for refugees is not charity; it is a contribution to the global stability on which all nations depend - and this is especially important at a time when the world faces a heightened threat of terrorism.
Terrorists are strategic in their work and their messaging. The civilized world must be equally strategic in its response. Where extremists seek to foster a clash of civilizations, democratic governments should not play into their hands.
That is what a ban on specific nationalities does. It is not right, it is not needed and it is not smart.
In 1980, when Congress passed the Refugee Act with bipartisan support, President Carter's secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Joseph A. Califano Jr., said the refugee issue required the United States to "reveal to the world - and more important to ourselves - whether we truly live by our ideals or simply carve them on our monuments."
That still resonates today. Expert review of the resettlement vetting process is part of good government. Hasty dismissal of carefully developed systems is harmful in and of itself. It is also a distressing departure from fact-based policy making.
The world looks to America for enlightened leadership. Its citizens seek the same from their government. Refugee policy is a telling test for every nation. The United States passed that test for so many years, so it is a tragedy for it now to fail when its commitment is needed more than ever.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
David Miliband (@DMiliband), a former British foreign secretary, is the president and chief executive of the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian aid organization.

Related Articles

•	Trump's Immigration Ban Is Illegal
•	Trump Bars Refugees and Citizens of 7 Muslim Countries
•	Fears That Trump's Visa Ban Betrays Friends and Bolsters Enemies
•	Mexico's Forceful Resistance

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

160 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 19, 2017 Thursday

U.S. Should Not Turn away Asylum Seekers at its Borders

LENGTH: 673  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 The global refugee crisis, the largest since World War II, demands strong and principled U.S. leadership. But as the Washington Post reported on Monday, and non-governmental organizations detailed in a formal complaint, some U.S. border officers have been turning away "numerous" asylum seekers at the southern border. 


 

 When Congress--with strong bipartisan support--passed the Refugee Act of 1980, the United States codified its commitment to the 1951 Refugee Convention and its Protocol. Under those treaties, states can't return refugees to places where their lives or freedom would be threatened or reject potential refugees at the border. The United States is also a party to the Convention Against Torture, which prohibits governments from sending people to places where they would be in danger of being tortured.

 

 In the wake of World War II, the United States played a leading role in drafting the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. Without international treaties, many European states had closed their borders to refugees fleeing Nazi persecution, and the United States, along with Cuba, had turned away the S.S. St. Louis, a ship carrying refugees, many of whom were subsequently killed in the Holocaust. In a letter released on January 18, 2017, 1500 rabbis called on newly elected U.S. officials to keep America's doors open to refugees, noting that in the past "Severe restrictions kept countless Jewish immigrants in danger, and too many people faced death in Europe after being turned away from these shores."

 

 At the time the Refugee Convention was drafted, the United States pointed out that: "Whether it was a question of closing the frontier to a refugee who asked admittance, or of turning him back after he had crossed the frontier, or even of expelling him after he had been admitted to residence in the territory, the problem was more or less the same. Whatever the case might be, whether or not the refugees was in a regular position, he must not be turned back to a country where his life or freedom could be threatened."

 

 Laws are to be followed even during times when states are tempted to break them. In fact, that's usually when they matter the most. Instead of turning away those seeking protection, the United States should allow them to be assessed through its asylum and protection processes. A spokesperson for DHS's Customs and Border Protection confirmed that its officers are obligated to refer potential asylum seekers to the asylum division for screening. As Human Rights First urged in a letter to DHS in July 2016, the agency should allocate sufficient staffing to busy ports of entry, stop turning away asylum seekers, and assure compliance with U.S. treaty obligations.

 

 If the United States does not follow the rules, and adhere to its legal commitments, what signal does that send? Eighty percent of the world's refugees are hosted by developing countries, and the majority are hosted by ten states: Jordan, Turkey, Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran, Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Chad. Why should other countries do their fair share--and often much more--if the United States shirks its responsibilities?

 

 There are many lives on the line. Hondurans, Cubans, and others are at risk of deportation back to persecution if they are turned away when they seek U.S. protection. In the wake of the failure of the United States and European countries to adequately support frontline refugee hosting states through resettlement and aid, Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon have largely closed their borders to Syria's refugees, leaving thousands trapped inside the country to face Russian bombs, government persecution, and the brutality of ISIL.

 

 The United States should lead. Strong leadership means following the rules, rules that reflect core American ideals.

  

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

169 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 10, 2017 Tuesday

Four questions for Rex Tillerson on the global refugee crisis

LENGTH: 644  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: The Brookings Institution has issued the following news release:

  

 Rex Tillerson will come before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee tomorrow for a hearing on his nomination to serve as the next secretary of state.
 Among the most important challenges that will land on his desk, should he be confirmed for the position, is a global refugee crisis of massive scale and scope--one driven largely by the flow of people out of Syria, seeking safety from violence there. At stake is the stability of fragile front-line states in the Middle East, which now host more than 4.8 million Syrian refugees, and the strength of the trans-Atlantic relationship at a time when that relationship is simultaneously brittle and increasingly important. 


 

 Here are four questions members of the committee should consider asking Mr. Tillerson as they try to get a sense of how he would handle this consequential challenge.

 

     When world leaders met in September at the U.N. General Assembly, they adopted the New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants

     , which committed them to saving lives and sharing the burdens of doing so. Those commitments included: developing guidelines on the treatment of migrants in vulnerable situations; achieving a more equitable sharing of responsibility for hosting and supporting refugees; and negotiating, by 2018, a global compact toward that end. What role should the United States play in advancing these commitments?

     Related

         syria_refugees034    

         Towards solutions to the Syrian refugee crisis

         German Chancellor Angela Merkel walks before delivering a statement in Berlin, Germany, December 23, 2016. REUTERS/Hannibal Hanschke - RTX2WALU    

         2017 is not looking so good for Germany

         Syrian and Iraqi refugees line up next to a fence at the Greek-Macedonian border February 27, 2016 as the border crossing is briefly reopened near the Greek village of Idomeni. REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis - RTS8AFP    

         The refugee and migration crisis: Proposals for action, U.N. Summit 2016

     During the campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly pledged to restrict Muslim immigration to the United States, which would bring resettlement of victims of violence in Syria to a halt. Do you agree with his views? What do you believe are the consequences of that policy proposal for the relationship between the United States and Europe? The Muslim world? As secretary of state, what steps would you take to maintain strong relationships with our allies in Europe and our partners in the Middle East?

     If President Trump does not step up U.S. efforts to resettle victims of violence in Syria, delivering assistance to refugees where they are will become increasingly important, both as a means of alleviating human suffering and of relieving strain on fragile front-line states--Turkey, Lebanon, Egypt, and Jordan--who bear the brunt of the burden. How and to what extent will you support financing for humanitarian assistance for refugees residing there?

     The scale of the crisis vastly outstrips the capacity of national governments to address it. What role do the business community, civil society organizations, and state and local leadership play in meeting the needs of the newly arrived, both in front-line states and in Europe? How, as secretary of state, would you engage these non-traditional partners in your efforts to get refugee children into schools and adults into jobs?

 

 Mr. Tillerson's answers to these questions will shed light on his approach to a complex and urgent challenge that will almost certainly demand a meaningful share of his attention from day one. Let's hope he's committed to addressing it. Human lives, and America's interests, lie in the balance.

  

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

180 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 5, 2016 Monday

Kobach is Wrong, Barring Refugees Would Hurt National Security

LENGTH: 1139  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 Just days before the nation celebrated Thanksgiving, an AP photographer snapped a picture of Kris Kobach's proposed Homeland Security plan for the Trump Administration. Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state and a candidate for Department of Homeland Security (DHS) secretary, apparently presented President-elect Trump with a Homeland Security "strategic plan" to "Bar the Entry of Potential Terrorists." But rather than focusing on actual terrorists, the proposed plan appears to broadly target immigrants and refugees from "high-risk" areas and aims to reduce the U.S. resettlement of Syrian refugees "to zero."

 

 The Kobach plan seeks to resurrect the disbanded National Security Exit-Entry Registration System (NSEERS), often referred to as the "Muslim registry," which targeted immigrants and refugees from 25 countries based on religion and national origin for registration, interrogation and in some cases deportation.  
A report issued by the inspector general for DHS concluded that the program had actually had "no discernible public benefit." As the Bush Administration's former INS Commissioner, James W. Ziglar, explained: "The people who could be identified as terrorists weren't going to show up. This project was a huge exercise and caused us to use resources in the field that could have been much better deployed."

 

 The Kobach plan's goal of reducing the resettlement of Syrian refugees "to zero" makes clear that the true purpose of the Kobach plan is to prevent refugees and immigrants from Syria and other mostly Muslim nations from entering, or being welcomed in, the United States.

 

 The irony is that such a plan would actually hurt U.S. national security interests. Retired military leaders and former high level national security officials who have served both Democratic and Republican Administrations have publicly explained--in bipartisan letters, statements and op-eds--that they oppose proposals that would effectively halt or derail Syrian resettlement, and that resettlement actually advances U.S. national security interests.

 

 In December 2015, a bipartisan group of former national security officials and retired military leaders told the U.S. Congress that: "We believe that America can and should continue to provide refuge to those fleeing violence and persecution without compromising the security and safety of our nation. To do otherwise would be contrary to our nation's traditions of openness and inclusivity, and would undermine our core objective of combating terrorism." This group included former National Security Advisor Stephen J. Hadley, Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Former CIA Directors General David H. Petraeus, U.S. Army (Ret.) and General Michael V. Hayden, U.S. Air Force (Ret.), Former NATO Supreme Allied Commander Admiral James G. Stavridis, U.S. Navy (Ret.) and Former NATO Supreme Allied Commander and Former National Security Advisor General James L. Jones, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.).

 

 Earlier this year, another bipartisan group of former national security officials and retired military leaders issued a Statement on America's Commitment to Refugees, which stressed that "Accepting refugees, and encouraging other countries to do so, advances U.S. interests by supporting the stability of our allies struggling to host large numbers on their own." Former U.S. Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, in an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, explained that resettlement could help relieve the strain on U.S. allies like Jordan, countries whose infrastructures are affected by the stress of hosting many refugees. "[L]eft unaddressed," he warned, "the strain will feed instability and trigger more violence across the region, which will have consequences for U.S. national security."

 

 In the Statement on America's Commitment to Refugees, these former officials and retired military leaders also emphasized this country's strong commitment to protecting the persecuted:

 

     For more than two centuries, the idea of America has pulled toward our shores those seeking liberty, and it has ensured that they arrive in the open arms of our citizens. That is why the Statue of Liberty welcomes the world's "huddled masses yearning to breathe free," and why President Reagan stressed the United States as "a magnet for all who must have freedom, for all the pilgrims from all the lost places who are hurtling through the darkness.

 

 The statement's signatories included Former Secretary of Defense and U.S. Senator William S. Cohen, Former Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, Former Director of the CIA General Michael V. Hayden, U.S. Air Force (Ret.), Former Director of the National Counterterrorism Center Michael E. Leiter, Former U.S. Senator Carl M. Levin, Former Commander of U.S. Army Europe General David M. Maddox, U.S. Army (Ret.), Former Director of the National Counterterrorism Center Matthew G. Olsen, Former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry, Former NATO Supreme Allied Commander Admiral James G. Stavridis, U.S. Navy (Ret.), Former Homeland Security Advisor Frances F. Townsend and Former Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff.

 

 Both groups of former officials confirmed that refugees are already more rigorously vetted than any other travelers to the United States. As the second group detailed, "Americans are rightly concerned not only for the security of refugees but their own as well. For this reason, refugees are vetted more thoroughly than any other category of traveler seeking to arrive in the United States. The security process includes screenings by national and international intelligence agencies, fingerprint and other biometric data checks against terrorist and criminal databases, and multiple rounds of interviews."

 

 As members of the Trump team move ahead with the transition process, they will have substantial opportunities to be briefed by U.S. intelligence agencies and the Department of Homeland Security on the extensive vetting and security clearance checks employed in the refugee resettlement program. They will also be able to hear from U.S. allies, U.S. intelligence agencies and U.S. embassy staff around the world how important it is--in terms of U.S. interests--for the United States to support front-line refugee hosting states. By continuing this country's proud tradition of resettling refugees, America will also demonstrate to both ISIL terrorists and the growing far-right movements emboldening bias-motivated attacks across Europe that America stands for religious freedom and knows that it has the strength to safeguard its security without abandoning its ideals and targeting religious minorities.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

191 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 11, 2016 Tuesday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017 Pages 70315 - 70316 [FR DOC # 2016-24736]

LENGTH: 625  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:

  

 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 81 , No. 196 / Tuesday, October 11, 2016 / Presidential Documents [[Page 70315]] Presidential Determination No. 2016-13 of September 28, 2016 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of up to 110,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.  
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members): Africa......................... 35,000 East Asia...................... 12,000 Europe and Central Asia........ 4,000 Latin America and the Caribbean 5,000 Near East and South Asia....... 40,000 Unallocated Reserve............ 14,000 The 14,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2017, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. Persons in Iraq [[Page 70316]] d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                 

                     (Presidential Sig.)

 

                 THE WHITE HOUSE,

 

                     Washington, September 28, 2016

 

 [FR Doc. 2016-24736

 Filed 10-7-16; 11:15 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

193 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 30, 2016 Friday

Washington: Email from Madeleine Albright: When I Was Welcomed as a Refugee

LENGTH: 489  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: White House Administration has issued the following news release:

  

 I came to the United States as a refugee when I was 11 years old. My father was a diplomat and a strong supporter of democracy in Czechoslovakia, so when the Communists took over, we were forced into exile as refugees. In November 1948, we were welcomed to the United States of America. 


 

 Becoming a U.S. citizen is the most important thing that ever happened to me. My father said that when we were in Europe during WWII people would say, "We are sorry for your troubles and hope that you have everything you need; by the way, when will you be leaving to go back home?"

 

 But in America, people said: "We are sorry for your troubles and hope that you have everything you need; by the way, when will you become a citizen?"

 

 America resettles more refugees than any other nation because it reflects one of our noblest traditions as a nation: providing support to those who are most vulnerable.

 

 With the world facing the largest mass displacement on record since World War II, it has never been more important for world leaders to follow America's example and work together to do more to support refugees.

 

 Today, President Obama is hosting a Refugee Summit meeting to encourage more world leaders to step up and make new commitments to support the critical work of resettling refugees and helping them rebuild their lives. You can watch the President's speech here at 3:35 PM Eastern.

 

 Under President Obama, we've increased the number of refugees resettling this year to 85,000 - including 10,000 Syrian refugees. Starting next week, the United States will commit to resettling 110,000 refugees from around the world over the coming year.

 

 And with refugees undergoing the most rigorous screening of any kind of traveler, he's shown that we can welcome refugees while ensuring our own safety.

 

 As a former Secretary of State, I can tell you that President Obama's leadership in this global crisis is critical to our national security.

 

 When countries with insufficient resources take in refugees, it creates more instability, not just at the frontlines of this crisis, but around the world. If we were to slam the door in the faces of refugees with certain religious backgrounds, we would defy our history and our principles of pluralism and diversity. As we talk to other nations about what more needs to be done to tackle this crisis, it's important that President Obama is setting this example.

 

 When I came here as a child, I will never forget sailing into New York Harbor for the first time and beholding the Statute of Liberty. I did not have to face refugee camps or the kind of danger that many refugees endure. But like all refugees, I shared a hope to live a safe life with dignity and a chance to give back to my new country.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

  

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

202 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 19, 2016 Monday

Obama to Push Refugee Aid at U.N., but Critics Say Effort Is Overdue

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1321 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

ABSTRACT
Even those who praise Mr. Obama's planned meeting on the refugee crisis wonder why the United States waited so long to mount a global response and why it has taken in so few Syrians. 

FULL TEXT
UNITED NATIONS - President Obama is planning to use his last appearance before the United Nations General Assembly this week to corral world leaders to uplift the lives of refugees crossing borders in droves. But critics say the United States faces a credibility test of its own.
Even those who praise Mr. Obama's plan to host a  meeting on the global refugee crisis as the annual General Assembly session opens on Tuesday wonder why the United States waited so long to mount an international response to the crisis, and why it has taken in such a paltry number of Syrian refugees fleeing the world's deadliest battlefield.
Moreover, American officials are being criticized for trying to keep out people fleeing gang violence in Central America, even jailing children who show up at the border without legal papers. Only recently did the White House agree to let a small number of people from the region apply for resettlement from their home countries.
That ambivalence was summed up by Elvis García, who fled the notoriously violent city of San Pedro Sula, Honduras, only to find himself locked up in the United States. He was 15 at the time. 
He praised Mr. Obama for organizing the meeting. But Mr. García, now 26 and living, legally, in New York, plans to attend a so-called shadow summit meeting down the street from the United Nations headquarters to draw attention to what he considers the refugee crisis on America's doorstep.
"I understand there's a big crisis in the Middle East, but we can't forget the thousands of children fleeing Central America," he said. "There are so many kids today fleeing violence. They can't get asylum."
International law requires countries to offer protection to those fleeing war and persecution, and only recently did the Obama administration concede that many people who might have valid asylum claims had no way to get to the United States. It announced this summer that it would let some Central Americans apply for refugee status from their home countries. The initiative immediately came under fire from Republicans, who pressed for tougher border controls.
"The U.S. has a mixed history: On resettlement it's strong, but there are certainly many examples where U.S. behavior has not been best practice," said Jane McAdam, an Australian law professor who closely follows how countries handle refugees.
"Very few countries come to this with clean hands," Ms. McAdam said.
There are 21 million refugees worldwide, including five million Palestinians. The vast majority of refugees are concentrated in low- and middle-income countries. The Syrian war has forced four million people to flee to Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan; hundreds of thousands of them began crossing the Mediterranean last year, creating turmoil in the European Union over how to handle the influx.
The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, urged countries to offer permanent homes to about two million refugees, but his calls fell on deaf ears. Instead, countries flout their legal obligations. Under a now-faltering deal between the European Union and Turkey, asylum seekers who cross into Greece from Turkey are sent back, and Turkey receives aid to look after them.
Australia detains asylum seekers in offshore Pacific island facilities. Even Jordan, which has long hosted Palestinians as well as refugees from Syria, Sudan and Iraq, has lately closed its borders, leaving tens of thousands of Syrians to set up makeshift encampments in the desert.
The United States has long prided itself as a land of refuge. It contributes more money than any other nation to the United Nations refugee agency. Mr. Obama has forcefully spoken out against calls to bar Muslims from entering the country. And the United States offers a permanent home to more refugees than any other country.
This year alone, 85,000 refugees from a variety of conflict zones were selected and screened by the government and resettled in the United States. The Obama administration has proposed resettling 110,000 next year.
Election-year politics, though, have weighed heavily on the White House's refugee policies. Republicans have pressed for tougher screening procedures on Syrians, and several Republican governors have sought to keep out Syrian refugees altogether.
"What we need to see is a greater commitment around the world to not just shunting this burden off to a handful of countries," Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said last week.
"The other reality here," he added, "is that the president's commitment to ensuring that the United States plays a leading role on this issue is not shared by a lot of people in Congress, including by a lot of people in the Republican majority in Congress, and that has an impact in terms of the resources that are dedicated to this effort."
Slightly more than 10,000 Syrian refugees have been resettled in the United States this year. By comparison, Germany has taken in nearly 500,000 Syrians, and Canada 35,000.
The White House has said it wants countries to double the number of slots available for permanent resettlement to 200,000 (about 1 percent of all refugees worldwide); increase aid to refugees by 30 percent; provide jobs for a million refugees; and offer educational opportunities for a million refugee children. Some money pledged by countries at previous aid conferences has yet to materialize.
The White House also plans to announce pledges from private companies to help refugees.
Privately, some European diplomats scoff at the notion that the United States is asking the world to do more. Publicly, many Europeans also point out that the United States has the luxury of being far from the hottest war zones.
"Europeans make that point frequently: The geography of North America means Canada and the United States are sometimes in a more relaxed environment," said Elizabeth Collett, the director of the Migration Policy Institute's Europe office in Brussels. "What they would rather see is solidarity."
T. Alexander Aleinikoff, an American law professor and former United Nations refugee agency official, commended the efforts of the Obama administration, but he said he was dismayed that it had not mobilized a global conference earlier to respond to Syrian refugees.
"What's really needed is a formal system for responsibility sharing," Mr. Aleinikoff said.
The United States played such a role after the Vietnam War, he pointed out. But those were the Cold War days. The United States resettled more than 200,000 refugees in the early 1980s, more than double the number it has taken in this year. Most of them were from the former Soviet Union.
Louise Arbour, a Canadian jurist and a former United Nations high commissioner for human rights, called it "a luxury" for the United States to be able to accept those refugees it so carefully vets.
"Resettlement is a very safe way of taking people in," she said. "It's a very different thing for Europeans to see people walking in, undocumented."
That is precisely the challenge facing the United States at its southern border. It continues to detain those who show up without legal papers, including children. In August, many countries sought an international agreement committing countries not to detain undocumented children; the United States was among the countries that balked at such language.
Refugee advocates say the United States, while moving in the right direction, needs to do more to help refugees.
"The United States is tremendously committed," said Eleanor Acer, the legal director of the advocacy group Human Rights First. "But like any country, when it's a refugee knocking on your door, then it's harder to live up to your legal obligations and your values."
Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

203 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 19, 2016 Monday  
Late Edition - Final

Obama's Push for Refugee Aid Is Overdue, Critics Say

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1292 words

UNITED NATIONS -- President Obama is planning to use his last appearance before the United Nations General Assembly this week to corral world leaders to uplift the lives of refugees crossing borders in droves. But critics say the United States faces a credibility test of its own.
Even those who praise Mr. Obama's plan to host a  meeting on the global refugee crisis as the annual General Assembly session opens on Tuesday wonder why the United States waited so long to mount an international response to the crisis, and why it has taken in such a paltry number of Syrian refugees fleeing the world's deadliest battlefield. 
  Moreover, American officials are being criticized for trying to keep out people fleeing gang violence in Central America, even jailing children who show up at the border without legal papers. Only recently did the White House agree to let a small number of people from the region apply for resettlement from their home countries.
  That ambivalence was summed up by Elvis García, who fled the notoriously violent city of San Pedro Sula, Honduras, only to find himself locked up in the United States. He was 15 at the time. 
  He praised Mr. Obama for organizing the meeting. But Mr. García, now 26 and living, legally, in New York, plans to attend a so-called shadow summit meeting down the street from the United Nations headquarters to draw attention to what he considers the refugee crisis on America's doorstep.
  ''I understand there's a big crisis in the Middle East, but we can't forget the thousands of children fleeing Central America,'' he said. ''There are so many kids today fleeing violence. They can't get asylum.''
  International law requires countries to offer protection to those fleeing war and persecution, and only recently did the Obama administration concede that many people who might have valid asylum claims had no way to get to the United States. It announced this summer that it would let some Central Americans apply for refugee status from their home countries. The initiative immediately came under fire from Republicans, who pressed for tougher border controls.
  ''The U.S. has a mixed history: On resettlement it's strong, but there are certainly many examples where U.S. behavior has not been best practice,'' said Jane McAdam, an Australian law professor who closely follows how countries handle refugees.
  ''Very few countries come to this with clean hands,'' Ms. McAdam said.
  There are 21 million refugees worldwide, including five million Palestinians. The vast majority of refugees are concentrated in low- and middle-income countries. The Syrian war has forced four million people to flee to Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan; hundreds of thousands of them began crossing the Mediterranean last year, creating turmoil in the European Union over how to handle the influx.
  The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, urged countries to offer permanent homes to about two million refugees, but his calls fell on deaf ears. Instead, countries flout their legal obligations. Under a now-faltering deal between the European Union and Turkey, asylum seekers who cross into Greece from Turkey are sent back, and Turkey receives aid to look after them.
  Australia detains asylum seekers in offshore Pacific island facilities. Even Jordan, which has long hosted Palestinians as well as refugees from Syria, Sudan and Iraq, has lately closed its borders, leaving tens of thousands of Syrians to set up makeshift encampments in the desert.
  The United States has long prided itself as a land of refuge. It contributes more money than any other nation to the United Nations refugee agency. Mr. Obama has forcefully spoken out against calls to bar Muslims from entering the country. And the United States offers a permanent home to more refugees than any other country.
  This year alone, 85,000 refugees from a variety of conflict zones were selected and screened by the government and resettled in the United States. The Obama administration has proposed resettling 110,000 next year.
  Election-year politics, though, have weighed heavily on the White House's refugee policies. Republicans have pressed for tougher screening procedures on Syrians, and several Republican governors have sought to keep out Syrian refugees altogether.
  ''What we need to see is a greater commitment around the world to not just shunting this burden off to a handful of countries,'' Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said last week.
  ''The other reality here,'' he added, ''is that the president's commitment to ensuring that the United States plays a leading role on this issue is not shared by a lot of people in Congress, including by a lot of people in the Republican majority in Congress, and that has an impact in terms of the resources that are dedicated to this effort.''
  Slightly more than 10,000 Syrian refugees have been resettled in the United States this year. By comparison, Germany has taken in nearly 500,000 Syrians, and Canada 35,000.
  The White House has said it wants countries to double the number of slots available for permanent resettlement to 200,000 (about 1 percent of all refugees worldwide); increase aid to refugees by 30 percent; provide jobs for a million refugees; and offer educational opportunities for a million refugee children. Some money pledged by countries at previous aid conferences has yet to materialize.
  The White House also plans to announce pledges from private companies to help refugees.
  Privately, some European diplomats scoff at the notion that the United States is asking the world to do more. Publicly, many Europeans also point out that the United States has the luxury of being far from the hottest war zones.
  ''Europeans make that point frequently: The geography of North America means Canada and the United States are sometimes in a more relaxed environment,'' said Elizabeth Collett, the director of the Migration Policy Institute's Europe office in Brussels. ''What they would rather see is solidarity.''
  T. Alexander Aleinikoff, an American law professor and former United Nations refugee agency official, commended the efforts of the Obama administration, but he said he was dismayed that it had not mobilized a global conference earlier to respond to Syrian refugees.
  ''What's really needed is a formal system for responsibility sharing,'' Mr. Aleinikoff said.
  The United States played such a role after the Vietnam War, he pointed out. But those were the Cold War days. The United States resettled more than 200,000 refugees in the early 1980s, more than double the number it has taken in this year. Most of them were from the former Soviet Union.
  Louise Arbour, a Canadian jurist and a former United Nations high commissioner for human rights, called it ''a luxury'' for the United States to be able to accept those refugees it so carefully vets.
  ''Resettlement is a very safe way of taking people in,'' she said. ''It's a very different thing for Europeans to see people walking in, undocumented.''
  That is precisely the challenge facing the United States at its southern border. It continues to detain those who show up without legal papers, including children. In August, many countries sought an international agreement committing countries not to detain undocumented children; the United States was among the countries that balked at such language.
  Refugee advocates say the United States, while moving in the right direction, needs to do more to help refugees.
  ''The United States is tremendously committed,'' said Eleanor Acer, the legal director of the advocacy group Human Rights First. ''But like any country, when it's a refugee knocking on your door, then it's harder to live up to your legal obligations and your values.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/19/world/americas/obama-refugee-united-nations.html

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elvis García, holding a soccer ball in 2015 in the Bronx, wants the United States to do more for children fleeing Central America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Syrian refugee studied a map last month in Jordan. About 10,000 Syrians have resettled in the United States this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAAD ADAYLEH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)       

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

204 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 19, 2016 Monday  
Regional Edition

Today's nativism, and yesterday's

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 559 words

THE OBAMA administration's goal of accepting 110,000 refugees in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 - a nearly 30 percent increase from the current level and a nearly 60percent jump from the three previous years - is an amply justified response to the world's worst refugee crisis since World War II, and it prompted predictable snarls from congressional Republicans. Sen.Jeff Sessions of Alabama said the president's new target ignores "the common sense concerns of the American people," and Rep. Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said the influx of refugees, including from Syria, disregards "how it will impact local communities." 
The Sessions-Goodlatte impulse fits a xenophobic historical pattern of U.S. antipathy toward foreigners - especially those fleeing war and persecution - that clashes with the cherished image of an open-hearted nation greeting the poor, huddled masses.
One can well imagine with what warmth, or lack of it, Mr. Sessions and Mr. Goodlatte might have welcomed previous waves of unwashed and desperate refugees from, say, Hungary in 1958; Indochina in 1979; Cuba in 1980; or, for that matter, the European Jews who urgently sought refuge here in the late 1930s. Today, of course, they might celebrate those immigrants and their successful assimilation, yet when those refugees were knocking on this nation's door, large majorities of Americans opposed their admission.
Survey data gathered last year by the Pew Research Center provide a picture of Americans' past hostility. In 1958, soon after the Soviet Union squashed a liberation movement in Hungary, 55percent of Americans disapproved of a plan to admit 65,000 Hungarian refugees. In 1979, 62 percent of Americans disliked an initiative to absorb 14,000refugees per month, double the existing number, from Indochina following the end of America's military engagement there. And in 1980, more than 70percent of Americans opposed the Mariel boatlift, when the Castro dictatorship in Havana allowed tens of thousands of Cubans to set off for Florida.
In each case, refugees resettled in the United States in large numbers, defying predictions that their admission would trigger social upheaval and economic disaster, much as previous immigrants from Ireland, Italy and Eastern Europe overcame the antagonism of those who had preceded them to U.S. shores.
The long history of fear and hatred directed toward refugees in the abstract - tempered by the warm-hearted embrace with which many have been greeted in real life by their new American neighbors, churches and communities - is often swept under the historical rug because it is so blatantly disgraceful. Politicians like Mr. Sessions and Mr. Goodlatte would no doubt decry America's failure to rescue more Jews from Europe immediately before Hitler unleashed the Holocaust. Yet in 1938, on the eve of World War II, two-thirds of Americans opposed the admission of refugees, including children, from Germany and Austria.
The current hostility of many Americans toward admitting Syrian Muslim refugees is based on ostensible concerns about  terrorists mingling among the migrants. Yet it fits the pattern of historical nativism, justified by different arguments at different times. To his credit, Mr. Obama grasps the prejudice at the root of the opposition, and has the courage to  disregard it.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

206 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

September 15, 2016 Thursday

White House goal: 110,000 refugees

BYLINE: By Josh Lederman Associated Press

SECTION: WASHINGTON_; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 371 words

WASHINGTON -- The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the previous year. 
The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.
Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where the origins of the crisis have been most pronounced.
An additional 35,000 will come from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.
The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region once Congress is notified.
Secretary of State John Kerry had previously suggested that the U.S. target would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure on Tuesday.
The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before that, the target was 70,000 per year.
The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected to people who had spent time in Syria.
Officials said that potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.
The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil war that has killed roughly half a million people.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

210 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

September 15, 2016 Thursday

U.S. goal: Take in 110,000 refugees next year

BYLINE: JOSH LEDERMAN The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 323 words

WASHINGTON - The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the previous year. 
The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.
Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where the origins of the crisis have been most pronounced. An additional 35,000 will come from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.
The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region once Congress is notified.
Secretary of State John Kerry had previously suggested that the U.S. target would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure on Tuesday.
The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12 months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before that, the target was 70,000 per year.
The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected to people who had spent time in Syria.
Officials said that potential refugees would continue to be subject to a rigorous screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

213 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 4, 2016 Sunday  
Every Edition

10,000 is not enough

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 542 words

IN THE face of the most calamitous refugee crisis since World War II, the United States has finally begun granting refuge to displaced Syrians on a pace that, while still unequal to the problem's scale and the United States' capacity, at least starts to acknowledge that a crisis exists. 
In an announcement Monday, the White House said the administration had met its goal of granting asylum to 10,000 Syrians in the current fiscal year, which ends in a month. Officials said they expect to continue accepting asylum applications in coming weeks and months.
The modesty of the numerical goal is incommensurate with the weight of the challenge posed by some 5 million Syrian refugees, including roughly 1.1 million already in Europe. Measured against resettlement programs on behalf of refugees by Germany, France, Britain and other Western countries, to say nothing of those by Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, America's own efforts are meager. Canada, with a population barely a tenth the size of the United States', has resettled three times more Syrian refugees since last fall. And Washington's goal for the next fiscal year, starting Oct. 1, is no greater than its goal for the current year.
National security adviser Susan Rice heralded the arrival of the 10,000th refugee by releasing a statement lauding the "important message" President Obama had sent. Given the craven resistance to any resettlement, especially among some Republican governors, the self-congratulation was understandable. Yet the United States could do much more.
Hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese were resettled in this country after the war there. More than 120,000 Cubans came to the United States in the course of a few months during the Mariel boatlift in 1980. As former Maryland governor Martin O'Malley has noted, if the United States, a country of 320 million, granted asylum to 65,000 Syrians, it would be statistically akin to adding 6Â½ people to a baseball stadium holding 32,000. And notwithstanding grandstanding politicians who depict the refugees as a grave threat, many of those who have been resettled, in towns and smaller cities in nearly 40 states, say they have been treated well by their new American neighbors.
The political headwinds have more to do with xenophobia, especially regarding the Middle East and Muslims, and a generalized fear of terrorist attacks, than with any specific or real threat posed by Syrian refugees.
While most Syrian refugees resettled in the past year are children and women, it is impossible to assure that none of them, and none of the 75,000 refugees accepted from around the world, may pose a security threat, now or in the future. Still, Syrian asylum-seekers have been subjected to intensive and enhanced security vetting, including face-to-face interviews by U.S. officials, scrutiny of social media accounts and other screening measures.
Previous waves of immigrants and refugees - Irish, Italians, Jews and Vietnamese - have been despised, feared and shunned by some Americans, much as Syrians are being vilified by some Americans now. Yet like their predecessors, Syrians, joining 150,000 of their countrymen already in the United States, will make new and productive lives that ultimately add to America's unique dynamism.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

215 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Foreign policy; 
Durbin: Syrian refugees are no danger to US 'Visa waiver' program a bigger concern, he says

BYLINE: Bernard Schoenburg Political Writer

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 604 words

U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin said in Springfield Monday that the fear of Syrian refugees coming to the United States -- a fear often stirred by politicians -- is misplaced.
"These are people that are hopeless ... they have nowhere turn," Durbin said in a speech at the University of Illinois Springfield to the World Affairs Council of Central Illinois.
 Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Durbin said, 800,000 refugees from across the globe have come the United States. And, he said, "Not one has been involved in an act of terrorism." 
 Refugees, he said, are vetted in a process that often takes a year or two. He called the current situation in Syria "heartbreaking," and said there is no easy solution to stop conflict there that has generated millions of people leaving the country.
 He said accepting refugees is "never a popular issue," and recalled that during World War II, the United States "systematically rejected refugees from Europe," including thousands of children.
 Since World War II, he said, America has accepted 1.9 million Vietnamese, more than 50,000 Cubans and 120,000 Soviet Jews.
 "The list goes on and we have a strong record," he said.
 Durbin said a better way to ensure safety of the United States today than rejecting desperate refugees would be to review procedures involved in a "visa waiver" program that the U.S. has with 38 countries, allowing 20 million visitors to come to the United States without background checks. He said one idea would be to take fingerprints of people traveling to the country through that program before they leave their own country. That would be an alternative, he said, "instead of declaring war on those helpless Syrian refugees."
 Durbin also used Monday's speech to discuss his role, as Senate Democratic whip, in getting votes in line last summer to get the Iran nuclear deal into force.
 Durbin credited President Barack Obama with pulling together an "almost incredible coalition" of nations, including China and Russia, to put economic sanctions on Iran that led to negotiations and the deal.
 Durbin noted that President Ronald Reagan would say "Trust, but verify," and added that, "In this case, it certainly applies."
 But he said the deal was struck with the help of experts on both sides, including U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, a nuclear physicist. And he said he had ambassadors from countries involved meet with members of the Senate, and it was clear that if the deal was not instituted, "there was not going to be a second chance."
 Despite what opponents say, Durbin said, "By any measure today, Israel is safer. The Middle East is safer," because of the deal.
 Durbin said the Iran nuclear deal, the Paris climate change agreement and restoration of diplomatic relations with Cuba after more than 50 years are three major foreign policy successes of Obama.
 "President Obama has brought U.S. leadership and a new urgency to global efforts to save the planet from a climate catastrophe," Durbin said.
 He said evidence of climate change has included "biblical-type flooding" and massive droughts, and said some climate-related changes have caused unrest in other countries.
 "When pro-democracy protests began in Syria in 2011, many of the first protesters were displaced farmers, driven into poverty by four straight years of drought," Durbin said.
 During a question-and-answer period, Durbin was asked about foreign policy failures of the Obama administration.
 "Well, Syria is one of them," he said, because "we haven't found a way to resolve that crisis."
 -- Contact Bernard Schoenburg: bernard.schoenburg@sj-r.com, 788-1540, twitter.com/bschoenburg.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
All Rights Reserved

216 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Tribune Review

August 15, 2016 Monday

Disaster awaits

LENGTH: 230 words

The day after the Obama administration announced it was on pace this year to admit at least 10,000 refugees "" and very likely more "" from war-torn Syria, a man swinging a machete and shouting "Allahu Akhbar" attacked two female police officers outside the main station in Charleroi, Belgium.   
It was the latest in a series of radical Islamic attacks in Europe, which has endured dozens of civilian deaths since the tide of Middle East refugees poured in.  
Yet these recurring jihads are lost on a White House determined to reach a refugee goal far removed from the reality in Europe. 
And whereas Europeans now are demanding tighter immigration enforcement, Democrat presidential aspirant Hillary Clinton insists on increasing the number of Syrian refugees entering America. 
As it is, the United States is on pace to accept 12,000 refugees this fiscal year "" and possibly 30,000 by next year, The Washington Times reports. Yet regardless of the turmoil in Europe, federal immigration enforcement insists it can spot bogus applications and weed out dangerous refugees.  
That's quite a claim when the U.S. has no access to Syrian databases or any on-the-ground information. 
Instead of pressing America's Middle East "allies" to open their countries to refugees of the same culture, the Obama administration stubbornly holds open the door to a potential disaster on the home front. 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

218 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 11, 2016 Thursday

Washington: Jihad Terror Is the New Normal for Europe

LENGTH: 654  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Colorado Alliance for Immigration Reform has issued the following news release: 

  

  The editor of JihadWatch did a fine job of explaining the state of Europe following the Merkelized immigration of Muslim unfriendlies. The latest atrocity was the machete attack on two Belgian policewomen in the town of Charleroi, for which ISIS has claimed responsibility. 


 

 Robert Spencer appeared on Fox Business Monday to answer the question "Is jihad terror the new normal in Europe?"

 

 Of course the answer is Yes, because ISIS has been happy to walk through the door that German Chancellor Merkel opened when she invited displaced Syrians to her country (and legions of other Muslims joined in). The important point is that ISIS is using the overwhelming numbers of unidentified foreigners to swamp the police.

 

 Spencer warned the same thing can happen here (where the FBI already is investigating 900 terror cases). And right on cue, it was reported on Monday that if the Obama surge of quickie screening continues, the number of Syrians admitted next year may reach 30,000.

 

 Of course, the proper number for Muslim immigrants is ZERO. America does not need workers, the nation is quite diverse enough and citizens don't want the traditional culture overwhelmed by hostile jihadist foreigners.

 

  

 

  

 

 ASHLEY WEBSTER: In Belgium, two police officers were attacked over the weekend by a man with a machete screaming in Arabic. It's familiar story unfortunately, Robert Spencer, author of the Complete Infidels Guide to the Koran. Is this the new normal for Europe, do you believe, these types of stories? Because it feels like we're hearing about them almost on a daily basis.

 

 ROBERT SPENCER: There's no doubt that it's the new normal for Europe. The Islamic state ISIS has called for these kinds of attacks. They've made a concerted effort to get people into Europe to launch these kinds of attacks from within the refugee influx. Remember the two of the Paris attackers last November were refugees. This man was an Algerian national who'd come into Europe in 2012, and so there are many many others embedded among the peaceful refugees who are actually Islamic jihadis. There are going to be many many more attacks like this one.

 

 WEBSTER: And the question is how much at risk is the United States? We know that Europe has struggled with this: they have a large number of migrants, refugees, to your point, that have come in. What about the United States? Where are our vulnerabilities?

 

 SPENCER: Our vulnerabilities are everywhere. The more people, the more refugees that Barack Obama brings in, the more likely this kind of thing is to happen in the United States. Remember that Tashfin Malik, the San Bernardino shooter, had passed five separate background checks from five different US agencies, and so we're bringing in only refugees who were vetted and checked -- and that vetting is completely useless.

 

 WEBSTER: What's interesting and then to that point, I want to get back to Europe and France. One of the suspects arrested in the death of the priest in in northern France had actually been on their radar, very much so, even had a tracking bracelet on his ankle and yet they were unable to stop this attack, but we don't have -- I don't think anyone has -- the resources to follow suspects 24 hours a day.

 

 SPENCER: That's the ISIS strategy, and see, that man's tracking bracelet, it was actually turned off for three hours every morning, and that's when he did this attack. And the ISIS strategy is to overwhelm law enforcement in Europe and the United States with so many of these jihadis that we just can't possibly keep track of all of them, and it's working.

 

 WEBSTER: How do we stop this? I would assume that you would believe this is going to continue. Will it increase in its frequency?

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

219 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

August 8, 2016 Monday

Failure to adequately address mass refugee migrations is the real crisis' immigration experts say

LENGTH: 658  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Chicago: American Bar Association has issued the following news release

  

 As Europe struggles with the crisis related to the surge of refugees from the Middle East and Africa, and the United States considers the extent to which it will take some in, the U.S. is confronted with a refugee crisis on its own southern border where more than 120,000 Central American children and parents have fled the violence in their home countries. 

 There is a lack of leadership in the efforts to handle the mass refugee migrations to Europe and the U.S.,, said immigration experts during the American Bar Association 2016 Annual Meeting panel discussion: "Refugee Crisis:  Challenges in Europe and at the U.S. Border," sponsored by the ABA Section of Civil Rights and Social Justice.

 

 "The crisis I believe we are facing on this issue right now is not the crisis about the refugees," said Elisa Massimino, president and CEO of Human Rights First. "It is the crisis about the way governments are failing to live up to their obligations and do what they committed to do on the intervention and status of refugees and protect people who can no longer count on their own governments to protect them that is the real crisis."

 

 The panelists, who compared the European and U.S. approaches on mass migration of refugees, agreed that neither was adequate for the unique circumstances faced by the refugees and their vulnerabilities under the law.

 

 "The word refugee gets thrown around a lot, and it is really a legal term, in our law and under international law," said Massimino. "Not everyone fleeing a difficult situation or looking for a better life has the same call under international law as a refugee does. A refugee is a person who has a well-founded fear of persecution on one of five grounds: race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership to a particular group."

 

 Refugees have special privileges under international law compared to some other immigrants, added Thomas Alexander Aleinikoff, visiting professor of law at Columbia Law School and former United Nations high commissioner for refugees in Geneva. However, countries fail to fulfill their obligations under those international agreements, he said.

 

 Aleinikoff noted that Syria's neighboring countries--Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and Iraq--have provided refuge to those seeking protection from violence, and have not subjected them to the scrutiny that they have faced in Europe and the U.S.

 

 In the U.S., the government has adopted policies of deterrence, and refugees are detained in prison-like facilities, said Holly Cooper, director of the Immigration Law Clinic at the University of California at Davis School of Law. In Europe, according to Cooper, refugees experience a "more humanitarian" approach, living in open campsites on the Greek coast while awaiting admission.

 

 In both cases, the lack of leadership and policies from local authorities to deal with the refugee crisis prevent refugees from securing adequate legal counsel and representation.

 

 This is a global crisis that "can't be solved by any one country," Massimino said. "But there is one country with the resources, standing and leadership to put forth such a plan, and that country is ours."

 

 A fundamental right to seek protection at the border is not an illegal act, said Katharina Obser, a migrant rights and justice program officer with the Women's Refugee Commission.

 

 "One thing that has been said a lot, in the U.S. context in particular, is this implication that people who are arriving at the southern border and seeking asylum are crossing illegally," said Obser. "When in fact it is someone's right to seek protection at the border, and the country whose protection they are seeking to respond with a fair, humane and just process. This applies for Europe and all countries in the world."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

220 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

July 25, 2016 Monday

Washington: Kirk Statement on Pro-ISIS Refugee's Axe Attack on German Train

LENGTH: 366  words

DATELINE: New York 


 Washington: Office of the Senator Mark Kirk has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) issued the following statement after a 17-year-old Afghan refugee injured four people following an axe attack on a German train. As the BBC reports from Germany, "The so-called Islamic State has released a video purporting to show an Afghan asylum seeker making threats before attacking a German train," adding: "The Afghan teenager, who had claimed asylum after traveling to Germany a year ago as an unaccompanied minor, had been living with the foster family since moving from a refugee centre in the town two weeks ago." 


 

 "ISIS remains committed to infiltrating refugee flows into the United States and Europe, and encouraging radicalized individuals to launch terrorist attacks against innocent men, women and children," Senator Kirk said. "Due to these continuing attacks, the Administration should suspend their politically-motivated deadline of approving 10,000 Syrian refugees into the United States by September 2016 until it implements strong policies to prevent terrorist infiltration of refugee flows."

 

 BACKGROUND:

 

     Earlier this year, Senator Kirk, along with Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.V.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), and James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.), introduced the Defend America Act (S. 2435) to prevent terrorist infiltration of the Syrian and Iraqi refugee programs by thoroughly screening all refugee and immigrant visa applicants for any pro-terrorist social media or other support to terrorist groups like ISIS.

 

     In January 2016, two Iraqi refugees were arrested by U.S. authorities in ongoing terrorism investigation, including one who pledged allegiance on social media to various terrorist organizations.

 

      At least two of the ISIS terrorists involved in the November 13, 2016, attacks in Paris, France, entered Europe by infiltrating refugee flows.

 

     In 2009, two al-Qaeda terrorist bomb-makers successfully infiltrated the Iraqi refugee program to resettle in Kentucky.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

221 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

July 16, 2016 Saturday

Welcome strangers seeking refuge

BYLINE: Norma Cook Everist For the Telegraph Herald

SECTION: X; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 500 words

Walking along the northern coast of Nova Scotia a few weeks ago, my husband, Burton, and I marveled at the beauty of the rocky coast and experienced some of the highest tides in the world at the Bay of Fundy. We also stood at the place of the expulsion of over ten thousand Acadians from Nova Scotia between 1755 and 1763, many hunted down and chained by the British, put on ships and deported. Their homes were burned. Separated from one another, they were dispersed to many places in North America and Europe. But, Acadian culture remains. 
Originally from France, the Acadians had lived peacefully for over 100 years among First Nation people, the Mi'kmaq. The British and the French fought over North American territories and who should populate them. Once under British control, the Acadians-who wanted to remain neutral-now had the wrong language and the wrong religion. Shortly after the Acadians were deported, the British placed ads in Boston newspapers to attract New Englanders to settle the fertile farmlands the Acadians had to evacuate. Only a few decades later, during and after the Revolutionary War, loyalists to the British would flee the United States to take refuge in Nova Scotia.
As Burton and I stood on that Nova Scotia deportation site, we repented that over 550 Native American tribes were displaced from the common story of the United States through efforts to annihilate or assimilate them. But, native people remain.
Today, millions of people are displaced by conflict, war, persecution, human trafficking and other forms of suffering. According to the U.N. Refugee Agency, over 65 million people worldwide have been forcibly displaced from their homes. Twenty million are refugees, more than half of whom are children under the age of 18. They exist.
Jesus was a refugee. When he was yet a babe Mary and Joseph had to flee from murderous King Herod to Egypt. The Hebrew people were refugees from Pharaoh, and exiles in Babylonian Captivity.
In the Refugee Christ, refugees and migrants have an advocate. People are released from captivity to freedom. The alienated belong to Christ and to one another. We who have experienced division are now one. Those who have been rejected are precious in God's eyes. The unprotected are kept safe. Enemies are reconciled. Therefore we are entrusted with the ministry of reconciliation. We are called to welcome the stranger, particularly those of a different language or religion from whom we would distance ourselves.
Near the end of our Nova Scotian travels, we had lunch at Restaurant Evangeline in the village of Cheticamp on Cape Breton. I noticed on the check-out counter a small box for Refugee contributions and asked about it. As I had guessed - I know Canada has taken in over 25,000 Syrian refugees - the waitress said, "The church is sponsoring a Syrian family - they're wonderful."
Everist is Professor of Church and Ministry at Wartburg Theological Seminary, in Dubuque. Her latest book is "Seventy Images of Grace in Epistles."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

238 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

June 21, 2016 Tuesday

65 million displaced by conflicts, U.N. reports

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 743 words

ABSTRACT
More people are on the run from war, terrorism, natural disaster and gangs than ever before, including almost 100,000 children fleeing on their own. 

FULL TEXT
More people are on the run than ever before in recorded history, the United Nations said in a report released Monday.
They include those fleeing marauders in South Sudan, drug gangs in Central America, and the Islamic State in the Iraqi cities of Mosul and Falluja. While most are displaced within their own countries, an unprecedented number are seeking political asylum in the world's rich countries. Nearly 100,000 are children who have attempted the journey alone.
All told, the number of people displaced by conflict is estimated to exceed 65 million, more than the population of Britain. 
The new figures, part of the United Nations refugee agency's Global Trends Report, come as hostility is surging toward migrants and refugees in the Western countries where they are seeking sanctuary and relief.
The European Union has shown signs of fracturing over how to handle the influx of people crossing the Mediterranean Sea.
The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Filippo Grandi, expressed alarm on Sunday about what he described as a ''climate of xenophobia that is very worrying in today's Europe.''
On Saturday, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, denounced what he called ''border closures, barriers and bigotry'' during a visit to Lesbos, the Greek island where thousands of asylum seekers have arrived, mainly from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. Mr. Ban implored European leaders to stop treating refugees as criminals.
''Detention is not the answer. It should end immediately,'' he said. ''Let us work together to resettle more people, provide legal pathways and better integrate refugees.''
The issue of how to handle the worldwide movement of people, whether they are fleeing war, persecution, poverty or environmental devastation, will be a major theme in September at the annual meeting of world leaders at the United Nations General Assembly.
In the United States, which historically has resettled more refugees than any other country, the Obama administration's promise to absorb 10,000 Syrians by October is off to a slow start. The administration also is facing criticism from rights advocates over a new round of deportations of Central Americans, including women and children.
Several American states have tried to block the resettlement of Syrians. The latest effort, in Texas, was thrown out by a federal judge last week.
The annual report by the United Nations refugee agency found that in 2015, 65.3 million people remained forcibly displaced from their homes by war and persecution.
The bulk of these people - nearly 41 million - were still living within their own countries. Never before had the United Nations documented so many ''internally displaced persons,'' as they are officially defined. The largest numbers were inside Syria and Iraq, but insurgencies in Nigeria and Somalia also scattered millions inside those countries.
That figure excluded people displaced by earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which in 2015 uprooted at least 19 million, according to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center, a leading source of information on internally displaced people worldwide.
Despite all the attention on Europe's struggle to absorb refugees, the report found that 86 percent of them were living in low- and middle-income countries close to the countries in conflict, like Ethiopia, Jordan and Turkey.
Half of all refugee children are out of school, the report said, often because schools in their host countries are stretched beyond capacity.
In some ways the latest refugee numbers amount to a report card on the failure of the world's most powerful leaders to end wars. From Syria to Afghanistan to the Democratic Republic of Congo, conflicts last longer, hospitals are bombed in brazen violation of humanitarian law, and aid workers complain bitterly that they are overwhelmed.
The report also highlighted the global dysfunction in accommodating refugees. Barely 200,000 people were able to go home last year or find a permanent home in a foreign country.
Jan Egeland, the head of the Norwegian Refugee Council who serves as the humanitarian adviser to the diplomatic effort to end the Syrian conflict, said the growing ranks of the displaced demonstrated the ''renouncement of responsibility'' by countries that have the power to end wars.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

239 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

June 21, 2016 Tuesday  
Suburban Edition

Citizenship ceremony connects plight of refugees now and long ago

BYLINE: Julie Zauzmer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 819 words

Five-year-old Hiyam Mahfuz watched her mother clutch an American flag Monday and repeat the words "I will support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United States of America."
"Do you know why we're here?" a visitor asked the little girl, dressed up in a sparkly pink outfit and a cat-ear tiara to attend the naturalization ceremony.
The daughter of a newly minted U.S. citizen replied, "Mommy's lucky." 
Seada Ali, Hiyam's mother, was one of 37 new citizens celebrating at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. Like Ali, who said she fled Ethiopia 10 years ago because of political violence, many of them were refugees who marked their acceptance in the United States while reflecting on the plight of refugees today.
The ceremony, which conferred citizenship upon immigrants from 16 countries from Afghanistan to Vietnam, fell on World Refugee Day, a commemorative event created by the United Nations in 2000.
Magda Hussein, who came to the United States as a refugee from Sudan 14 years ago, said she is particularly excited to become a citizen in an election year when refugee resettlement has been a topic of political conversation.
"I'm so proud to be a citizen. It's so good to be an American, especially in this time. Now I have voice," she said.
 A mother of four who lives in Lorton, she was a fan of Barack Obama and wished she could have voted for him. Now she'll be able to vote for Hillary Clinton, she said, declaring with her ballot how disappointed she has been by Donald Trump's verbal attacks on refugees,  particularly those from Syria.
"This is not fair. The United States is welcoming for everyone, no matter his faith, no matter his color," she said.
The Holocaust Museum director and federal officials who spoke at the ceremony connected the modern refugee crisis with the history that is retold at the museum.
Sara Bloomfield, the museum's director, said immigration policies adopted in the early 20th century were explicitly racist, meant to keep less-wanted people out of the country. The United States had no refugee program, just a restrictive immigration policy, when the Holocaust began, trapping Jews in Europe who might have fled Nazi Germany.
 Today's refugee resettlement program grew out of that past, when U.S. leaders saw that as a mistake after World War II ended, Bloomfield said.
"Today we celebrate those lessons that were learned," she said.
Then 37 immigrants stood for the national anthem, many filming on their smartphones. They echoed the oath of allegiance, pledging to serve their new country in a medley of accents.
"Congratulations, my fellow Americans," said Homeland Security Department chief of staff Paul Rosen to a lengthy standing ovation. "Make your mark in this land of opportunity."
Rosen said his relatives were persecuted in the Holocaust, as were the relatives of Antony Blinken, deputy secretary of state. Blinken told the story of his stepfather, who at 16 survived Auschwitz and Dachau and then ran into the woods under Nazi gunfire to escape a death march as the war was ending.
The teenager waited in the woods for a day until he saw an American tank passing. He ran toward it, fell on his knees and said the only English words he knew: "God bless America."
"Just as he ran toward that star, so do you," Blinken said.
"This is without a doubt one of the finest privileges of my life, to welcome you . . . to celebrate your citizenship and reflect on the peril and the loss you endured to reach it," he said. He referred to "deeply unsettling undercurrents in our own communities" of anti-refugee sentiment. But he also expressed faith that voters would continue the U.S.  tradition of welcoming those fleeing persecution.
That message rang true for Abdul Koroma, who arrived in the United States as a 7-year-old refugee from Sierra Leone when his country was split by civil war.
"I think it means freedom and opportunity to be successful," he said of his newly conferred citizenship. "It was a blessing for me."
Nancy Floode, Koroma's mother, made it to the United States first, with the expectation that her son would soon follow. Then she waited in horror as the situation in the land where she had left her small child in the care of relatives took an awful downturn. "They were cutting babies' arms off," she said. When the relatives fled the country, taking the boy to Guinea, she was frantic.
She continued to worry about him when he made it to the United States through the refugee resettlement program. He was withdrawn and frightened of other children. When he went to class for the first time, he sat on the floor, unaware that the other kids would sit at desks.
Now, he is a smiling 19-year-old. A successful student who just completed his freshman year at Virginia's Randolph-Macon College. An aspiring accountant who boasts with a grin that his goal is to pull in a six-figure income someday.
And as of Monday: a U.S. citizen.
julie.zauzmer@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

242 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

May 28, 2016 Saturday

State Department Should Drastically Increase Resettlement in FY 2017

LENGTH: 323  words

DATELINE: New York 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 In response to the Department of State's Request for Public Comment on its Fiscal Year 2017 refugee resettlement program, Human Rights First has urged the government to resettle 100,000 Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year, over and above the total refugee ceiling. 


 

 The United States has a long history of leadership in providing refuge to victims of religious, political, ethnic, and other forms of persecution. However, our response to the Syrian refugee crisis has fallen short of our history and values. In Fiscal Year 2016, the president established the ceiling for refugee admissions into the United States at 85,000 refugees, including "at least 10,000" Syrian refugees. This amounts to only about two percent of the Syrian refugees in need of resettlement, and just 0.2 percent of the overall Syrian refugee population of 4.8 million in the region around Syria.

 

 The current lack of effective resettlement or other orderly routes to protection has significant consequences, including contributing to instability in the region and driving many Syrian refugees to embark on dangerous trips to Europe. Already in 2016, 1,375 people have died or are missing at sea as they attempt the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean.

 

 In order to advance U.S. national security interests and continue to provide global leadership on refugee resettlement, the United States must significantly increase its resettlement of Syrian refugees beyond these levels in FY 2017. As detailed in the comment we submitted to the State Department, the U.S. government should aim to resettle 100,000 Syrian refugees in FY 2017 in addition to resettling roughly 75,000 refugees from other regions and countries, including Central America.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

248 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

April 8, 2016 Friday

German ambassador says refugee integration is critical

BYLINE: Tad Walch Deseret News

LENGTH: 633 words

By Tad Walch
Deseret News
PROVO - The German ambassador to the United States met with the second counselor in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Salt Lake City this week, and the two men learned they have more in common than their native German language.
Ambassador Peter Wittig and President Dieter F. Uchtdorf agreed that refugees need personal help from local residents when they resettle in a new country. 
"In the end," Wittig told the Deseret News after he spoke at Brigham Young University, "it's a challenge and, if you will, an assignment for each and every citizen to go out and open our hearts and contribute in a small or big way to help those refugees, either alleviate their plight or integrate them in their communities."
Wittig said that in their meeting, the same feeling was stressed by President Uchtdorf, who himself was a refugee twice as a child in war-torn Germany. President Uchtdorf mentioned that briefly in his talk at the church's worldwide general conference on Sunday and elaborated on it in a video interview in February.
During the same general conference, LDS leaders announced a new relief effort to support refugees by the women and girls in the church's Relief Society, Young Women and Primary programs. The First Presidency, including President Uchtdorf, sent a signed letter to local church leaders around the world about the effort, which is called "I Was a Stranger."
The effort's website, iwasastranger.lds.org, details numerous ways volunteers can help refugees integrate into their new neighborhoods and communities.
Wittig said assimilating refugees is a duty outlined in the German constitution. Today, 20 percent of Germans are immigrants or have at least one immigrant parent.
The current crisis is staggering.
"This is a human migration of epic proportions, I am tempted to say of biblical proportions," Wittig told an overflow crowd of a few hundred students and faculty in a lecture Wednesday at BYU's Kennedy Center for International Studies.
More than 1.1 million refugees flooded into Germany in 2015, the equivalent of 4.4 million entering the United States in a single year. In November alone, 10,000 refugees a day crossed German borders.
"The sheer number and speed of those refugees just overwhelmed us," Wittig said. "Europe and Germany were not prepared for this."
Wittig said Germany had to reduce the numbers, and its goal is fair distribution and ordered process of refugees entering Europe.
He said Germany must distinguish between those who are refugees - those who are politically persecuted and fleeing war - and those who understandably are seeking a better life.
"The latter group we will not be able to take," he said during a question-and-answer session.
On Thursday, German President Joachim Gauck said Germany must integrate refugees quickly or risk the rise of political and religious extremism, Reuters reported.
"The population must actively engage in accepting refugees and helping and supporting them as they integrate," Wittig said at BYU.
He praised the United States for the pivotal role it is playing in financing refugee camps in and near Syria and addressing the root causes of the crisis with diplomatic and military means. "This is a time of seemingly endless turmoil around the world," he said, but he said the good news is that German-U.S. cooperation is as good as its ever been due to the strong relationship between President Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
However, he said both nations need to work to improve their understanding of one another.
He said young Germans now see America less as a land of opportunity and more of a threat to personal privacy, while young Americans know little about Germany beyond World War II stories and luxury cars.
Email: twalch@deseretnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

250 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

April 1, 2016 Friday

Refugee controversies

BYLINE: Inouropinion For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 694 words

According to the United Nations, the civil war in Syria and the rise of the Islamic State has spurred over 4.8 million refugees to flee their homes and seek asylum in other countries. This has inspired many nations to rise up to the challenge of providing food and shelter to those in need. Europe, where most of these refugees have fled, is struggling to keep up with the massive influx of displaced individuals. As of February of this year, Turkey alone has taken in more than 2.7 million refugees who have entered the country over the past five years. Germany is a preferred destination of many of those fleeing to Europe and has welcomed a large number of refugees as well.
However as terrorist attacks have increased in Europe and elsewhere, officials have come under intense pressure to limit the flow of refugees into their countries. Dealing with the refugee problem is quickly becoming one of the dominant political issues in European politics. 
America by comparison has been a minor player in the refugee crisis, having resettled only a few thousand Syrian refugees in this country. America has provided a great deal of financial aid to international relief organizations, but when it comes to allowing refugees to relocate within our borders, the United States has resettled relatively few.
In a weekly address given in the wake of the deadly terrorist attacks in Belgium, President Barack Obama called on the nation to be more accepting of refugees. "As we move forward in this fight, we have to wield another weapon alongside our airstrikes, our military, and our counterterrorism work, and our diplomacy. And that's the power of our example," he said. He insisted that the goodness of our example can, in part, be measured by "our openness to refugees fleeing ISIL's violence." He's right. And, to his credit, the president has taken steps to increase the number of refugees who will be allowed entry into the U.S.
However, he has encountered a great deal of opposition to taking in refugees, both from political leaders and the public at large. Polls repeatedly show that a majority of Americans oppose allowing refugees to come to the United States. Almost all Republican governors have banded together to oppose any refugees from entering their states.
The refugee crisis has become an issue for the presidential campaign as well, with various candidates going out of their way to keep refugees out of the country. Senator Ted Cruz has sponsored legislation that would ban refugees from coming to America from war-torn territories, as well as a bill that would allow individual states to opt-out from receiving refugees. Gov. John Kasich has joined many of his Republican gubernatorial colleagues and called for "a pause on Syrian refugees." GOP presidential front-runner Donald Trump has even called for a blanket ban on all Muslims entering the United States.
The main opposition to allowing more refugees to enter the country seems to be the issue of public safety. Which is the primary reason why the flow thus far has been little more than a trickle. The vetting process for refugees coming into this country is extensive, often taking as long as two years to complete. Unlike Europe where large numbers of refugees enter daily, and there is a concern that many of them are single, unattached, fighting-age young men, the refugees flowing into this country are most often women and children, with relatively few of them coming from Syria.
Rather than finding ways to prevent refugees from coming to this country, every effort should be made to enhance the vetting process quickly so that more can be resettled here. In addition, those who have already been resettled should be warmly welcomed and quickly integrated into our communities so that they can become contributing members of society.
The events currently unfolding on the world stage suggest that the flow of international refugees will likely increase rather than diminish over time. Our willingness to show kindness to those who suffer is the greatest demonstration of our decency as human beings. It is time for America to rise to the occasion and step up our efforts to help those in need.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

251 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

April 1, 2016 Friday

To unify Europe, face Mideast as one

BYLINE: NORBERT RÖTTGEN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1140 words

DATELINE: BERLIN 

ABSTRACT
Germany should take the lead in compromising over discipline, refugees and access to Russian gas. 

FULL TEXT
After the horror in Brussels, Europe is mourning once more. Rightly, the states of the European Union are also focused on bringing the perpetrators to justice and preventing a follow-up attack. Cooperating more effectively on counterterrorism while tightening security at airports and train stations would be a start.
But we must not lose sight of the bigger picture. The Islamic State's goal in Brussels was to scare us and drive a wedge between us, and it seems to be succeeding. Here in Germany, and across the Continent, right wing, anti-immigration parties are calling for their nations to turn inward, away from one another. In Italy, the anti-immigrant Northern League wants an immediate closure of borders and mosques. The prime minister of Poland, Beata Szydlo, doubts that her nation of 40 million can meet its commitment to take in 400 refugees this year. Meanwhile, Nigel Farage, head of the UK Independence Party, suggests that the attacks prove that his country would be safer outside the European Union. 
These appeals to emotion play into the terrorists' hands just when what Europe must do is face its shared challenges with new unity at home, and a new readiness to act in the Middle East.
Within Europe, it is time for a comprehensive compromise, and my own country, Germany, should set the example. Germany cannot urge solidarity on the refugee question without giving ground on the economic and energy issues that divide the European Union. Concretely, that means accepting budget deficits that exceed European Union limits in countries like France and Italy that are suffering from high unemployment among the young.
It also means re-evaluating plans to expand the Nord Stream pipeline system that runs from Russia to Germany, bypassing Poland and other eastern member states, who see in this a threat to their energy security. Only by making concessions in these areas can we create the basis for a compromise about refugee acceptance that includes fair distribution of asylum seekers throughout the European Union.
As for the Middle East, it's important not to conflate the question of how to treat the people fleeing war and terror in Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan with that of how to combat the radical militants who receive inspiration and training in those countries. And it's important to remember that the Brussels attacks, like the attacks in Paris last November, appear to have been carried out by citizens of European countries. Defeating that internal threat requires reaching out to Muslim communities that feel marginalized, with too many young men who, seeing no prospects, fall victim to the siren song of jihadism.
Nevertheless, it is clear how directly events in the Middle East can affect our stability. Our disputes over how to treat asylum seekers are straining European unity as never before. And just as events in the Middle East are confronting Europe with enormous challenges to meet together, the region is becoming less vital for the United States. In The Atlantic last month, the journalist Jeffrey Goldberg reported that President Obama sees the Middle East as no longer terribly important to American interests and not amenable to America's efforts to improve it, and therefore a place where America risks its credibility and power when its efforts lead to warfare and American deaths. That is an assessment shared by many Americans; it reflects long-term trends like America's growing independence from Middle Eastern oil, the comparatively greater challenge posed by China's rise and the increasing economic importance of Asia and Latin America.
So any assumption that the United States will take the lead on every issue is outdated. If Europeans are not prepared to take on more responsibility, the West may lose its ability to shape events in the Middle East.
How should Europeans adapt? How should we respond to this paradigm shift?
First, the European Union must be willing to commit more money to the region. We must improve conditions in refugee camps in countries like Jordan and Lebanon, where a euro goes about 30 times as far as it would in Germany. We must invest more in the region's economic future, particularly in the young democracy of Tunisia. If young North Africans see stability and prosperity in their own communities, they are far less likely to feel pressed to emigrate.
Second, Europe needs a unified European Middle East policy that takes care of our own security. We have no lack of institutions. Rather, we suffer from a lack of will and a reluctance to discard antiquated notions of national prestige in foreign policy. Because individual member states so frequently act alone, our union of 500 million people punches below its weight. For example, a recent French proposal to restart Israeli-   Palestinian peace talks, with the goal   of a two-state solution, would have been stronger coming from the so-called E4+1, a grouping of France, Britain, Italy, Germany and the European Union's high representative for foreign affairs.
This grouping needs to play a permanent role in Middle Eastern affairs. Its first order of business should be working with the United States to persuade Russia to forgo using its veto and allow the creation of humanitarian zones in Syria under a United Nations mandate. Since these zones will need military protection, Europe would then have to back up its diplomatic initiative by contributing troops to an international peacekeeping mission. Libya, too, requires more political and military engagement. European training and support for local moderate forces could make a vital contribution toward stemming chaos in a country just 300 miles from Italian soil.
Finally, the new reality demands that we preserve the validity of the trans-Atlantic partnership in the 21st century. More help from the United States on the refugee question - namely, accepting many more refugees - would be very welcome. At the same time, European politicians must tell their voters that, as the United States pivots away from the Middle East, Europe will have to bear a greater burden, because so much is at stake for us.
In the end, of course, Europe won't be able to solve every problem alone. The United States will remain a major force in both the Middle East and Europe, and the West will need to work together to ensure common interests vital on both sides of the Atlantic - for example, that Iran sticks to the terms of the nuclear deal, and that a newly assertive Russia is restrained.
None of this will be easy, but I do not believe we have a choice. For the bombs that exploded in Belgium on March 22 were aimed not just at the people of Brussels, but at European unity and ideals. We cannot, and will not, allow terrorism to tear Europe apart.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the German Bundestag.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

253 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 30, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Donald Trump: [#xfffd]I Don't Think America is a Safe Place for Americans

LENGTH: 516  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Donald J. Trump has issued the following news release:

  

 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump says he doesn't believe American citizens are safe in their own country. 


 

 The frontrunner for the GOP's nomination expressed his concerns after he was asked whether Americans should feel safe traveling to Europe following last week's terror attacks in Brussels. Bombings at the capital's airport and a metro station killed 28 people, including at least two Americans.

 

 "I don't think America is a safe place for Americans, you want to know the truth," Trump said, later adding, "We're allowing thousands of people to come in here. Nobody knows where they're from. Nobody knows who they are and they're coming in here by the thousands and let me tell you something, we're going to have problems."

 

 While it was unclear which groups Trump was referring to, he proposed banning all Muslims from entering the U.S. following the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris and wants to build a safe zone for Syrian refugees instead of allowing them to enter the U.S.

 

 Trump has also asserted that President Obama wants to allow 250,000 Syrian refugees to come to the country, but the administration has only agreed to allow 10,000 Syrian refugees in the next year.

 

 Syrian refugees are subjected to "the most rigorous screening and security vetting of any category of people entering the United States," according to senior administration officials, and the process often takes one to three years to complete and includes biometric testing and intensive overseas interviews with Department of Homeland Security experts.

 

 Trump said Europe faces "very, very severe" problems regarding its handling of migrants and violent extremism.

 

 "I don't think that Europe is a safe place," he said. "When you look at Brussels, when you look at the way they've handled things from law enforcement standpoints, when you look at Paris, when you look at so many other places -- no, it's not."

 

 Trump defended remarks he made about Brussels in January when he called the capital "a hellhole" while making the case for his proposal to bar foreign Muslims from entering the United States. He referred to a story in The New York Times about how his comments had upset those living in the Belgian capital.

 

 "I'm the only one that predicted it. I said Brussels is a 'hellhole' and The New York Times mocked me," Trump said.

 

 The Republican frontrunner also defended his recent comments about NATO, suggesting the United States should reevaluate its role with the organization.

 

 "NATO is obsolete and it's extremely expensive for the United States, disproportionately so," he said.

 

 Trump added NATO could be "readjusted" to serve a new role to fight terrorism.

 

 "It's going to have to be either readjusted to take care of terrorism or we're going to have to set up a new -- a new coalition, a new group of -- of the countries to handle terrorism because terrorism is out of control," he said.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com     

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

254 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 30, 2016 Wednesday

Virginia: IA students work on new ways to understand the global refugee crisis

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Richmond: James Madison University, The state of Virginia has issued the following news release:

  

 Across the globe, 60 million people have been forced to flee their homes because of war, conflict or persecution, and approximately 42,000 additional people are displaced each day, according to  

 

 Brian Reich, Project Director for The Hive, [a special project of the United Nations Refugee Agency] who gave a presentation on transforming the way Americans are engaged with the global refugee crisis during the fall semester at JMU. 


 

 "The true challenge of the global refugee crisis lies in understanding the struggles of others beyond our bubble," said Reich. As citizens of the United States, we do not experience - and have a difficult time appreciating - the hardships that refugees have fled from and still face in their future. "This is not just a South American, African, or Middle Eastern challenge. It's a global challenge," explained Reich. The world is interconnected; this crisis creates security, economic, logistical, and political challenges that all nations have to face.

 

 Students in "Selected Topics in Intelligence Analysis: Tracking Refugees from Space" are taking on this challenge. They are working on new ways of understanding the global refugee crisis using imaging cameras in space that are mapping the earth's surface. "We're using military-grade tech to understand real world issues and intelligence," said Dr. Tim Walton, professor of the course.

 

 A new partnership between UrtheCast and JMU has made this course possible. Students are given access to recent data to allow them to track current issues as well as test the capabilities of the platform for UrtheCast, provide valuable feedback and identify issues. In return, they are granted free access to data from the UrtheCast remote sensing cameras. The images allow students to track the movements of refugees across the planet.

 

 This approach provides a new dimension in understanding the current refugee crisis. "What intelligence analysts do is research and try to solve problems," said Walton. Students pick areas from all around the globe, including Australia, Europe, Central America, the Middle East, and Asia and monitor movements of refugees in their area of focus. This allows them to better understand the push and pull factors that cause citizens to leave their homes. Over all, Walton hopes to demonstrate how the crisis can be better understood through the new dimension of earth observation from space.

 

 The Hive's goal of promoting engagement in the US concerning the refugee crisis aligns with the goals of the course. "Mr. Reich is trying to get more Americans involved in the crisis, and we're trying to understand the crisis and help others understand it from a new dimension," said Walton. Once the students have analyzed their data and completed their projects for the course, the reports will be sent to Reich. From there, they will be passed on to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to provide intelligence on the global refugee crisis. Ultimately, the partnership between JMU, The Hive, and UrtheCast has the potential to promote a better understanding of the global refugee crisis.

 

 Walton sees great potential for this approach to data and intelligence in the future. "Intelligence doesn't just have to monitor for terrorist attacks," said Walton. "It can be used to understand political and cultural issues." He views the students in his course as pioneers in the new capability offered by earth observation technology. "We are some of the first people on the planet to use data this way."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

256 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Tribune Review

March 23, 2016 Wednesday

Refugee realism

LENGTH: 239 words

Days before the terror attacks in Brussels, the House Judiciary Committee passed legislation that would tighten the screening of refugees in the United States and transfer to Congress the authority on setting quotas.  
The committee's 18-9 vote is a fitting rebuke to President Obama, who, despite public opposition, has remained steadfast in accepting 10,000 Syrian refugees this year. 
The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act would set an annual cap on refugees, subject to change ultimately by Congress instead of by presidential prerogative. It also gives state and local governments authority to reject refugee resettlements, The Hill newspaper reports. 
The case for tougher regulation is reinforced by this January's arrest in the U.S. of two Iraqi refugees who allegedly attempted to collude with ISIS and then lied about their terrorist ties. Even the administration's own security directors acknowledge that existing screening is far from foolproof.  
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson this month told House lawmakers that the tide of refugees from Iraq and Syria represents "a potential opportunity for terrorists organizations to move its members into other nations."  
As the attacks in Europe demonstrate, today's agents of terror will use any means possible to inflict carnage. America cannot hold open the gates to refugees from the same nations that cultivate terrorists and, at the same time, expect tranquility. 

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

257 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 21, 2016 Monday

European Agreement to Return Refugees to Turkey Threatens the Rights of Refugees

LENGTH: 455  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 Human Rights First today warned that the European Union's new agreement to return refugees to Turkey threatens the rights of vulnerable refugees who are fleeing violence in search of safety. 


 

 "Returning refugees to Turkey, a country that is blocking Syrian refugees from fleeing across its border, is anathema to the commitments that European states made in the wake of World War II to protect the persecuted. The last thing Europe should be doing at this time is turning its back on obligations to protect refugees," said Human Rights First's Eleanor Acer. "Europe is more than capable of managing these challenges without resorting to strategies that violate refugee protection and human rights law."

 

 European leaders today reached an agreement with Turkey that is aimed at preventing refugees and migrants from reaching Europe's shores.  Under the agreement, the E.U. will resettle one Syrian refugee from Turkey for every migrant or refugee who is returned from Greece, and will double its humanitarian assistance for Syrian refugees in Turkey. The resettlement program is limited to 72,000 Syrian refugees.  The effort, which is aimed at stemming the flow of refugees and migrants to Greece would effectively deny many refugees the right to seek asylum.  

 

 A recent Human Right First report found that conditions for Syrian refugees are deteriorating in front-line border states including Turkey. The report details the closure of Turkey's borders and its refusal to allow Syrian refugees to cross to safety. It also describes how the lack of effective regional protection, exacerbated by insufficient assistance and orderly resettlement or visa routes for refugees, is driving many Syrians to embark on dangerous trips to Europe. In Jordan, Lebanon, and parts of Turkey, the large number of refugees is straining critical infrastructures-- including water, sanitation, medical care, education and housing, as well as economic and job markets.

 

 The organization warns that to advance U.S. human rights, national security, and foreign policy interests, the United States should launch a global initiative to address the crisis, and significantly increase its own advocacy to champion the rights of refugees, as well as its resettlement and aid commitments.

 

 "Europe's poor response demonstrates why America needs to step up and champion the rights of refugees by significantly increasing its commitments to address the global refugee crisis through resettlement and support for front-line states," added Acer.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request included other documents, they completed successfully.

260 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

March 15, 2016 Tuesday

Washington: Syrian Refugees a Threat to the West?

LENGTH: 1122  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Religious Freedom Coalition has issued the following news release: 

  

 "Europe is a basket case" and "it is going to get worse in 2016," stated former House Intelligence Committee chairman Pete Hoekstra at a February 29 Center for a Secure Free Society (CSFS) panel in Washington, DC, on Middle East refugees.  He and his fellow panelists gave critical analysis of various dangers faced by Western societies responding to the humanitarian crisis caused by sectarian violence in a disintegrating Iraq and Syria. 


 

 Center for a Secure Free Society Senior Fellow J.D. Gordon introduced the panel by noting that four million Syrians, about half the country's population, have fled the country.  Such numbers placed in perspective the 10,000 Syrian refugees President Barack Obama's administration intended to resettle in the United States, as mentioned in the event literature.  Center for a Secure Free Society International Fellow for Canada Candice Malcolm similarly noted that Canada had fulfilled the very day of the panel a campaign pledge by recently elected Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to accept 25,000 Syrian refugees.

 

 Yet the panel focused on Europe, where an estimated 900,000 Syrian refugees had entered Germany alone, as noted by panel moderator and Daily Caller opinion editor Jordan Bloom.  American career diplomat Ambassador Alberto Fernandez described this human stream by which Europe voided its own entry rules as a "massive, unplanned exercise in virtue signaling by the European Union."  Bloom worriedly noted the recent announcement by German authorities that they had lost track of 130,000 refugees.

 

 "Germany is lying," Hoekstra responded to Bloom amidst audience laughter, "there is no way that they are still tracking 770,000, that they have only lost 130,000.  They only know that they have lost 130,000."  Hoekstra described television coverage during a recent Europe vacation of thousands of refugees in the Budapest train station where he and his wife had just transited.  He speculated that perhaps another 50-70,000 refugees had entered Germany without any official knowledge.

 

 "If you don't think that they are seeded with ISIS [Islamic State in Iraq and Syria] people, you are crazy," Hoekstra said of these refugees while predicting for Europe as well as Canada a "security nightmare."  "We have no idea who these people are.  The Canadians have no idea who these people are," he stated while suggesting that half the refugees entering Europe actually came from Afghanistan.  Fernandez discussed a Syrian friend living in Belgium who went to visit 90 supposed Syrian refugees in her community but only discovered five; the rest of the individuals hailed from various places like Afghanistan or Eritrea.

 

 Malcolm cited worrying statistics such as those of a British polling firm that found 20 percent of Syrians in general and 13 percent of Syrian refugee camp residents in particular having a positive view of ISIS.  A Lebanese cabinet minister had estimated that two percent of Syrian refugees were ISIS sympathizers/members, approximating nonetheless 20,000 dangerous individuals among Lebanon's 1.2 million Syrian refugees.  Yet for Syrian refugees "Europe has absolutely no selection criteria whatsoever.  It is a first come, first served free-for-all."

 

 Malcolm described strict Canadian security controls similar to America's designed to screen such dangers among refugee resettlement applicants.  Canada only accepted Syrian families, no single men, from United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps and applicants could not have infectious diseases or criminal records.  Any inconsistency in an applicant's story immediately stops security checks involving an interview.

 

 Nonetheless, Malcolm noted that ISIS had seized passport production facilities in Syria's failed state, a factor among others like stolen identification that would stymie even Canada's precautions.  Reliable Syrian officials for local background investigations no longer existed, she noted, while Hoekstra observed that "by definition, trying to get information from a failed state means you are going to get failed information."  While Canadian intelligence has already identified Islamic terror cells in every major Canadian city, Malcolm stated, 'it just takes one to get through to create a national security threat."  This should also concern Canada's American neighbor across a basically open border.

 

 While Trudeau's refugee pledge initially helped him on the campaign trail, Canadian public opinion has "totally flipped" on further refugee resettlement, Malcolm observed.  "After the [November 2015] Paris attacks, people in Canada started to realize that there was a threat" and overwhelmed Canadian refugee aid organizations want a pause in admitting refugees.  While Trudeau has called for resettling another 25,000 refugees, 70 percent of surveyed Canadians disagree with his policy and 43 percent want no more.

 

 Fernandez noted that security concerns can extend beyond the first generation of resettled Muslim refugees.  "Second generation immigrants are an at risk population," as unlike the parents who show gratitude towards asylum countries, the children "grow up confused, they grow up with identity issues."  As an example he cited the 2013 Boston marathon bombers, the offspring of Chechen asylum seekers, while Malcolm mentioned Ottawa's 2014 Parliament Hill shooter, a Canadian-born man whose father was involved with Libyan jihadists.

 

 Himself a Cuban refugee, Fernandez worried about Muslim refugee assimilation in a Europe now having an "acute crisis of identity."  He emphasized the necessity of a "confident, clear-minded culture, society, and state who understands who they are, what they are, what their values are, what they stand for, to be able to assimilate others."  The demand to assimilate foreign-born individuals into a society begs the question "assimilate into what?"

 

 Amidst all these concerns, Fernandez noted in Syria the "tremendous irony that the countries that are not responsible for this debacle are the ones being called upon to do much" to help.  Iran, Qatar, Russia, and Saudi Arabia had given the most aid to the Syrian conflict parties, yet the single largest humanitarian donor to Syrian refugees was the United States, a non-Muslim-majority country.  Malcolm meanwhile noted that 90 percent of Syrian refugees originally offered sanctuary in Canada refused, demonstrating how many refugees wanted to stay in the region.  Many things would be simpler for all concerned if only they could satisfactorily fulfill this wish.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

267 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 16, 2016 Tuesday  
Late Edition - Final

Merkel's Good Deed Tested

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1581 words

BERLIN -- A former German chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, recently called Angela Merkel's decision to open the door to an unlimited number of refugees a ''mistake'' and offered this verdict: Merkel had a ''heart, but no plan.''
This view of the German leader, who is beloved but now begrudged, is gaining ground as refugees from a ravaged Syria and elsewhere pour in. Local authorities are strained to the limit. Billions of euros have been spent with no end in sight. Many people came in whose identities are unknown; they have to register if they want handouts, but some have not and there are security concerns. Cologne has become a byword for concern over how a large influx of Muslim men will affect the place and security of women in German society. 
  Three important state elections loom next month. It seems inevitable the far-right Alternative for Germany Party will surge. Merkel will be blamed. Her support has already tumbled. One poll this month showed 46 percent of Germans support her, compared with 75 percent in April last year -- and that's with a strong economy. She could be vulnerable if her Christian Democratic Party turns on her. Europe without Merkel will sink. 
  So why did this customarily prudent chancellor do it? Because she is a German, and to be German is to carry a special responsibility for those terrorized in their homeland and forced into flight. Because she once lived in a country, East Germany, that shot people who tried to cross its border. Because a united Europe ushered Germany from its darkest hour to prosperity, and she is not about to let the European Union pitch into mayhem on her watch -- as it would with more than a million ragged refugees adrift. And, yes, because she has a heart.
  Merkel did the right thing. The question now is how she handles the consequences. Management involves setting limits. After taking in more than one million refugees last year, Germany cannot take in that number again in 2016. As Germany's president, Joachim Gauck, said recently: ''A limitation strategy may even be both morally and politically necessary in order to preserve the state's ability to function.'' He added, ''If democrats refuse to talk about limits, they leave the field open to populists and xenophobes.''
  But setting limits is not a just a German issue. It's a Syrian issue. It's a Turkish issue. It's a Russian issue. It's an American issue. It's a European issue. Merkel needs Europe to have a functioning external border if it is to remain borderless within the 20-plus-nation Schengen zone. Otherwise national borders will go up. The European Union will unmake itself. ''No European border, no Schengen!'' Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, Gauck's chief adviser, told me.
  Merkel's domestic dilemma demands international answers.
  She needs the Syrian war, the main source of the refugee outflow, to end, but the latest American-Russian plan for a cessation of hostilities almost looks more likely to unravel in the weeks ahead than hold. She needs Turkey, in exchange for billions of euros, to tighten its borders and stop the refugee exodus. But Turkey is playing an extortion game, and is not above a little schadenfreude at seeing the Europe that rejected it fray.
  In Russia, she needs President Vladimir Putin's cooperation, but his strategy is the undermining of a united Europe; a ''weaponized'' refugee flow achieves just that. Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian prime minister, declared in Munich this weekend that, ''We are rapidly rolling into a period of a new cold war.'' He asked: ''Is this 2016 or 1962?'' Around Aleppo, a world war in miniature unfolds.
  Merkel needs the United States to exercise its power in a way President Obama has refused to do through the inexorable spread of the Syrian crisis. Unless the United States is prepared to establish a safe area in northern Syria and put pressure on Turkey to turn a chaotic refugee flow into an orderly process, the current untenable situation will persist. If America is unprepared to reverse Russian-Iranian gains in Syria, it must at least show commitment to managing the consequences. She needs European countries like Poland and Hungary -- recipients of huge injections of cash from the European Union -- to snap out of their ungrateful moods of nationalist xenophobia, but that's not going to happen soon.
  The European idea has not been this weak since the march to unity began in the 1950s. Germany is awash in so-called Putinversteher -- broadly Putin sympathizers like Schröder -- who admire him for his strong assertion of Russian national interests. Michael Naumann, a former minister of culture, told me: ''The United States has left us, we are the orphaned kids in the playground, and there's one tough guy, Putin. It's really that simple.''
  Germany is Europe's core, its dominant power. If Merkel's refugee gambit implodes, the reverberations will be felt everywhere. The country feels restive, placid on the surface, tense beneath. A woman told me of how a 15-year-old Syrian refugee was admitted to her daughter's class. The girl's cellphone rang, the ring tone was a muezzin's call to prayer, and the teacher burst out: ''So next you'll have a suicide belt!'' There was embarrassment all around, apologies and parental letters. ''The situation's out of control,'' the woman said.
  At the Berlin state office for health and social affairs, a sprawling maze of buildings, white tents have gone up. Long lines of refugees make their way through the various bureaucratic hurdles to identity cards. They huddle in the rain, their sneakers muddy, their jackets too flimsy for the cold.
  Mustafa Dilaneh left Latakia, Syria's main port, in August, and paid $6,000 for his passage to Germany. He has been granted German residency until Feb. 22; he hopes for a passport after that. He is learning German. He wants to return home, but first, he says, President Bashar al-Assad ''must go or die.'' Failing that, he has a dream of America. ''I love New York so much,'' he told me. ''The city no sleep.''
  A Facebook friend taught Dilaneh that phrase. This is the world's first massive smartphone coordinated migration. Syrians don't see the West as alien; they know it through countless images, brands and tunes. But for some Germans, these Middle Eastern refugees are an alien threat.
  I went out to Nauen, a small dismal town near Berlin where unemployment is high. Signs brandished at rightist demonstrations last year said, ''Nauen will stay white.'' In August, a gymnasium that was to have housed refugees was burned down in an unsolved act of arson. The charred skeleton of the building with its blackened pillars and piles of rubble still stands. It cost about four million euros to build and will need at least that amount to replace.
  A new emergency center for several hundred refugees is planned nearby, with a view of this stark symbol of hatred. To say Nauen is combustible would be an understatement. ''There will more protests,'' Volker Müller, who works to promote intercultural understanding, told me. ''In some ways this feels like a bigger problem than German reunification.''
  The scale of Germany's challenge is evident at Tempelhof Airport in Berlin, built to last by the Nazis, and used in 1948 and 1949 for the Berlin Airlift that, at its height, saw American C-47s landing every 90 seconds to bring the supplies essential for the preservation of freedom in part of the divided German capital. Now the vast 52-foot high hangars are being converted into shelters for thousands of refugees who sleep, 12 to each screened white rectangular bedroom unit, where aircraft were once housed. Already there are 2,600 or so refugees; there may eventually be 7,000. ''It's our duty to find a place for them,'' Sascha Langenbach, a spokesman on Berlin social issues, told me. He predicted another 60,000 may come to the capital this year.
  I spoke to a couple of young refugees from Aleppo, Mahmoud Sultan and Mulham (he preferred not to give his family name out of concern for his family's safety). They complained about the food, about the noise, about the difficulty of studying German, about how weeks stretched into months at this ''emergency'' center.
  They had not wanted to leave Aleppo. But, as Mulham put it: ''You have this hope the war will end. For one year, two years, three years, you keep this hope. You think, I owe my country something and I will stay. Until in the fifth year you realize there are five wars! The rebels against Assad, ISIS against the Free Syrian Army, the Saudis against Iran, the Kurds against ISIS, and Russia against America! And you lose hope.''
  The refugees did not leave because they had a choice. They left because they concluded they had none. Merkel, given her personal history and her nation's, had little choice but to take them in.
  Now she needs those five wars to abate, and Western allies to come together with something of the resolve that Tempelhof symbolizes, if she is to calm a strained Germany, hold Europe together, and survive. That will require leadership and determination of a kind she demonstrated but that is in short supply in the social-media echo chamber of our times.
  This column has been updated to reflect news developments. 
  You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 
  This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.         

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/15/opinion/will-merkel-pay-for-doing-the-right-thing.html

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

268 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

February 15, 2016 Monday

Will Merkel pay for making it right?

BYLINE: ROGER COHEN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1505 words

ABSTRACT
The German chancellor needs to set limits on the number of refugees, but she also needs help from her Western allies. 

FULL TEXT
A former German chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, recently called Angela Merkel's decision to open the door to an unlimited number of refugees a ''mistake'' and offered this verdict: Merkel had a ''heart, but no plan.''
This view of the German leader, who is beloved but now begrudged, is gaining ground as refugees from a ravaged Syria and elsewhere pour in. Local authorities are strained to the limit. Billions of euros have been spent with no end in sight. Many people came in whose identities are unknown; they have to register if they want handouts, but some have not and there are security concerns. Cologne has become a byword for concern over how a large influx of Muslim men will affect the place and security of women in German society.
Three important state elections loom next month. It seems inevitable the far-right Alternative for Germany Party will surge. Merkel will be blamed. Her support has already tumbled. One poll this month showed 46 percent of Germans support her, compared with 75 percent in April last year - and that's with a strong economy. She could be vulnerable if her Christian Democratic Party turns on her. Europe without Merkel will sink. 
So why did this customarily prudent chancellor do it? Because she is a German, and to be German is to carry a special responsibility for those terrorized in their homeland and forced into flight. Because she once lived in a country, East Germany, that shot people who tried to cross its border. Because a united Europe ushered Germany from its darkest hour to prosperity, and she is not about to let the European Union pitch into mayhem on her watch - as it would with more than a million ragged refugees adrift. And, yes, because she has a heart.
Merkel did the right thing. The question now is how she handles the consequences. Management involves setting limits. After taking in more than one million refugees last year, Germany cannot take in that number again in 2016. As Germany's president, Joachim Gauck, said recently: ''A limitation strategy may even be both morally and politically necessary in order to preserve the state's ability to function.'' He added, ''If democrats refuse to talk about limits, they leave the field open to populists and xenophobes.''
But setting limits is not a just a German issue. It's a Syrian issue. It's a Turkish issue. It's a Russian issue. It's an American issue. It's a European issue. Merkel needs Europe to have a functioning external border if it is to remain borderless within the 20-plus-nation Schengen zone. Otherwise national borders will go up. The European Union will unmake itself. ''No European border, no Schengen!'' Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, Gauck's chief adviser, told me.
Merkel's domestic dilemma demands international answers.
She needs the Syrian war, the main source of the refugee outflow, to end, but the latest American-Russian plan for a cessation of hostilities almost looks more likely to unravel in the weeks ahead than hold. She needs Turkey, in exchange for billions of euros, to tighten its borders and stop the refugee exodus. But Turkey is playing an extortion game, and is not above a little schadenfreude at seeing the Europe that rejected it fray.
In Russia, she needs President Vladimir Putin's cooperation, but a core element of his strategy is the undermining of a united Europe; the refugee flow from Syria achieves just that. She needs the United States to exercise its power in a way President Obama has refused to do through the inexorable spread of the Syrian crisis. Unless the United States is prepared to establish a safe area in northern Syria and put pressure on Turkey to turn a chaotic refugee flow into an orderly process, the current untenable situation will persist. If America is unprepared to reverse Russian-Iranian gains in Syria, it must at least show commitment to managing the consequences. She needs European countries like Poland and Hungary - recipients of huge injections of cash from the European Union - to snap out of their ungrateful moods of nationalist xenophobia, but that's not going to happen soon.
The European idea has not been this weak since the march to unity began in the 1950s. Germany is awash in so-called Putinversteher - broadly Putin sympathizers like Schröder - who admire him for his strong assertion of Russian national interests. Michael Naumann, a former minister of culture, told me: ''The United States has left us, we are the orphaned kids in the playground, and there's one tough guy, Putin. It's really that simple.''
Germany is Europe's core, its dominant power. If Merkel's refugee gambit implodes, the reverberations will be felt everywhere. The country feels restive, placid on the surface, tense beneath. A woman told me of how a 15-year-old Syrian refugee was admitted to her daughter's class. The girl's cellphone rang, the ring tone was a muezzin's call to prayer, and the teacher burst out: ''So next you'll have a suicide belt!'' There was embarrassment all around, apologies and parental letters. ''The situation's out of control,'' the woman said.
At the Berlin state office for health and social affairs, a sprawling maze of buildings, white tents have gone up. Long lines of refugees make their way through the various bureaucratic hurdles to identity cards. They huddle in the rain, their sneakers muddy, their jackets too flimsy for the cold.
Mustafa Dilaneh left Latakia, Syria's main port, in August, and paid $6,000 for his passage to Germany. He has been granted German residency until Feb. 22; he hopes for a passport after that. He is learning German. He wants to return home, but first, he says, President Bashar al-Assad ''must go or die.'' Failing that, he has a dream of America. ''I love New York so much,'' he told me. ''The city no sleep.''
A Facebook friend taught Dilaneh that phrase. This is the world's first massive smartphone coordinated migration. Syrians don't see the West as alien; they know it through countless images, brands and tunes. But for some Germans, these Middle Eastern refugees are an alien threat.
I went out to Nauen, a small dismal town near Berlin where unemployment is high. Signs brandished at rightist demonstrations last year said, ''Nauen will stay white.'' In August, a gymnasium that was to have housed refugees was burned down in an unsolved act of arson. The charred skeleton of the building with its blackened pillars and piles of rubble still stands. It cost about four million euros to build and will need at least that amount to replace.
A new emergency center for several hundred refugees is planned nearby, with a view of this stark symbol of hatred. To say Nauen is combustible would be an understatement. ''There will more protests,'' Volker Müller, who works to promote intercultural understanding, told me. ''In some ways this feels like a bigger problem than German reunification.''
The scale of Germany's challenge is evident at Tempelhof Airport in Berlin, built to last by the Nazis, and used in 1948 and 1949 for the Berlin Airlift that, at its height, saw American C-47s landing every 90 seconds to bring the supplies essential for the preservation of freedom in part of the divided German capital. Now the vast 52-foot high hangars are being converted into shelters for thousands of refugees who sleep, 12 to each screened white rectangular bedroom unit, where aircraft were once housed. Already there are 2,600 or so refugees; there may eventually be 7,000. ''It's our duty to find a place for them,'' Sascha Langenbach, a spokesman on Berlin social issues, told me. He predicted another 60,000 may come to the capital this year.
I spoke to a couple of young refugees from Aleppo, Mahmoud Sultan and Mulham (he preferred not to give his family name out of concern for his family's safety). They complained about the food, about the noise, about the difficulty of studying German, about how weeks stretched into months at this ''emergency'' center.
They had not wanted to leave Aleppo. But, as Mulham put it: ''You have this hope the war will end. For one year, two years, three years, you keep this hope. You think, I owe my country something and I will stay. Until in the fifth year you realize there are five wars! The rebels against Assad, ISIS against the Free Syrian Army, the Saudis against Iran, the Kurds against ISIS, and Russia against America! And you lose hope.''
The refugees did not leave because they had a choice. They left because they concluded they had none. Merkel, given her personal history and her nation's, had little choice but to take them in.
Now she needs those five wars to abate, and Western allies to come together with something of the resolve that Tempelhof symbolizes, if she is to calm a strained Germany, hold Europe together, and survive. That will require leadership and determination of a kind she demonstrated but that is in short supply in the social-media echo chamber of our times.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

270 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

February 6, 2016 Saturday  
Late Edition - Final

Europe's Huddled Masses

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 867 words

WASHINGTON -- From London to Athens, Europe is questioned. Some people, mainly refugees from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, are dying to get into the European Union. Many British conservatives are fighting to get out of it. Others, including President Vladimir Putin of Russia, plot to undermine it. Yet others are bored by it: The 20th century and the strategic imperatives behind NATO and the European Union seem far away to wired millennials.
The two most powerful symbols of European integration -- the euro that binds 19 European Union states in a common currency and the Schengen accords that allow people to move freely among 22 European Union nations -- are in danger of unraveling under the pressure of polarized politics, diverging economic performance and the influx of more than one million desperate migrants and refugees in the past year.  
  There is an identity crisis. Christian Europe, a notion that Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary has turned into a kind of illusory fetish, is in fact much less Christian. Around 6 percent of the European population is Muslim today; by 2030 that figure will be 8 percent.
  A small minority of those Muslims -- told by online jihadist propagandists that there is no gray zone between Islam and the infidel, only the obligation to slaughter the unbeliever -- drift off via Turkey to ISIS-held territory in Syria and return to kill -- Charlie Hebdo, the Paris kosher supermarket, Paris sports and music halls and restaurants, the Brussels Jewish museum. Division and demagogy spread. Xenophobic rightist parties thrive at the margins from Sweden to Greece.
  At Cologne and Stockholm stations, in the two countries that have overwhelmingly taken in the most refugees, two rampages -- by asylum seekers against women in Germany and by masked nationalist thugs against refugee children in Sweden -- illustrate the tensions.
  Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, recently told my colleague Jim Yardley: ''This is not Europe. This is a nightmare.'' That nightmare is one of looming fragmentation, violence and walls for the half-billion people now moving freely between Warsaw and Lisbon.
  It can be averted. The Europe of today is not the Europe of the 1930s. In Berlin, Angela Merkel stands tall, a European leader of immense stature. Still, the fissuring pressures are intense.
  Sometimes, as Yeats noted, ''the falcon cannot hear the falconer.'' We live in an age of unraveling. The postwar is over. The post-Cold War is over. The United States, under President Obama, has quietly stepped back from Europe. Washington is nowhere to be seen on the refugee crisis, the absent power, much as it was absent from the Minsk process on the Ukraine crisis.
  The world is most dangerous in a power vacuum. The geopolitical divides across the world are the most marked in at least a generation. This makes every issue more intractable. The United Nations has proved a complete dud on Syria. It took almost five years, 250,000 dead and more than 11 million displaced people for the Security Council to pass a resolution on a ''road map'' to peace. That map, for now, is utter fiction. For as many years, Obama did nothing.
  Now refugees stream from Syria and elsewhere into Europe. If they carry a banner, it should read, ''Reap what you sow, feckless world.'' A digital migration of epic proportions is underway. Each refugee has a smartphone and knows his or her desired destination.
  From this New Europe to New Hampshire, unpredictable forces are at play. Show me a Donald Trump, even a slightly Iowa-humbled one, and I'll see you with a Marine Le Pen.
  The strange thing is this troubled Europe has rescued the United States. That's new. Without Merkel's courageous decision to take in 1.1 million refugees last year, Europe would have faced catastrophe -- and America, even in an election year, could not have ignored violent mayhem among its allies as borders closed and ''huddled masses yearning to breathe free'' were cast adrift.
  Another 65,000 refugees arrived in Germany in January, setting the country on course for 780,000 more this year. Some 200,000 mainly Muslim children are entering German schools. Imagine if America, which has four times the German population, were to register 800,000 mainly Muslim children in schools in a few months. On reflection, don't even try.
  Nobody knows what Germany's limit is. But there is one. Merkel's Christian Democratic Union will turn on her if the numbers keep rising. Other European nations are not going to take significant quotas: There's scant democratic support for the right and ethical thing to do.
  So Germany has to cut a deal with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. The deal will probably see Turkey getting piles of cash -- and perhaps the visa waiver that Turks desperately want from Germany -- in exchange for Turkey strictly curtailing the flow of refugees to an agreed number who would not have to risk their lives in flimsy boats.
  Turkish politics have become German domestic politics. A troubled Europe, cast loose from America, slouches toward Ankara to be saved.
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/05/opinion/europes-huddled-masses.html

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

271 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

February 6, 2016 Saturday

Washington: Donovan, House Homeland Security Committee Examine Terrorist Exploitation of Refugee and Visa Programs

LENGTH: 332  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Dan Donovan has issued the following news release:

  

 Congressman Dan Donovan (NY-11) and his colleagues on the House Committee on Homeland Security yesterday questioned intelligence and security officials on vulnerabilities in America's refugee and visa programs. Donovan focused his questions on the risks to America posed by hundreds of thousands of stolen or lost Syrian and Iraqi passports. 


 

 According to the 9/11 Commission, "For terrorists, travel documents are as important as weapons." Two terrorists in the Paris attacks used fraudulent Syrian passports to enter the European Union through Greece, and Donovan asked the witness panel whether the missing documents pose a security threat to America.

 

 Donovan said in the hearing, "The proliferation of genuine documents used maliciously by groups like ISIS presents a real challenge for our screening process. What are your agencies doing to combat this issue?"

 

 The security officials acknowledged the problem and said they are taking appropriate measures to address any vulnerabilities that may exist. Terror plots and attacks, including San Bernardino and the recent arrests of Iraqi refugees in Houston and California, make it clear that the Department of Homeland Security must be vigilant in shoring up America's refugee and visa screening processes.

 

 Yesterday's hearing follows Donovan's vote last year in support of the American Safety Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act, which stipulates that no refugee from Iraq or Syria may enter the United States until federal security agencies certify that the refugee does not pose a threat.

 

 Donovan said, "Securing the homeland is government's most fundamental responsibility. As New York City's only representative on the House Committee on Homeland Security, I'll continue fighting to make sure our families and neighborhoods are safe."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

278 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

January 29, 2016 Friday

Rights group assails Europe over migrant crisis

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: LONDON 

ABSTRACT
European governments have allowed fears about migration and terrorism to erode their commitment to civil rights, the group said in a new report. 

FULL TEXT
European governments have allowed widespread fears about migration and terrorism to erode their commitment to civil rights and liberal ideals, according to a new report by the advocacy group Human Rights Watch.
''Blatant Islamophobia and shameless demonizing of refugees have become the currency of an increasingly assertive politics of intolerance,'' Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, wrote in an essay in the group's annual World Report, the 26th it has published.
The report, released in Istanbul, praised Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany for demonstrating ''remarkable leadership'' in the face of one of the largest refugee crises in history - the exodus of four million Syrians from a civil war that began in 2011 - but it criticized European countries for erecting razor-wire fences, restricting movements across borders and trying to deflect the problem by pledging 3 billion euros, or about $3.25 billion, to Turkey to help stem the flow of refugees. 
''To a large extent, Europe's preoccupation with the new refugees as a possible terrorist threat is a dangerous distraction from its own homegrown violent extremism, given that the Paris attackers were predominantly Belgian or French citizens,'' the report said, referring to the Nov. 13 assaults orchestrated by the Islamic State, which killed 130 people.
The report suggested that the French government had overreacted to the attacks by imposing a state of emergency that is still in effect.
The state of emergency allows security forces to conduct searches and to make arrests without warrants, and a lack of judicial oversight makes religious profiling, particularly of young Muslim men, more likely.
Human Rights Watch urged the European Union to expand refugee resettlement programs and to issue humanitarian visas in ''places of first refuge,'' like Lebanon (for Syrian refugees) and Pakistan (for Afghan refugees).
Nearly 3,800 people, a third of them children, drowned in the Mediterranean while trying to reach Europe last year, and a more humane and orderly process would make it easier to keep out terrorists, the group said.
It also urged the Persian Gulf states and Russia, along with countries that traditionally take in many migrants, like Australia, Canada and the United States, to accept more.
The United States has pledged to take in 85,000 refugees this year. Human Rights Watch condemned the dozens of United States governors who unsuccessfully sought to bar Syrian refugees from entering their states, and contrasted their stance with that of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, who has accelerated the plan to take in 25,000 Syrian migrants.
The report, with chapters on more than 90 countries or territories, did not focus only on migrants. It also faulted Russia for fanning nationalism and for suppressing dissent as its economy sours; China for arresting lawyers and activists; the presidents of Turkey and Burundi for organizing crackdowns related to their efforts to cling to power; and the governments of Kenya and Sudan for thwarting investigations by the International Criminal Court.
The report noted that Ethiopia, India, Russia and several other former Soviet countries had enacted restrictions on civic groups that receive foreign funding, to choke off potential sources of dissent.
It faulted Bolivia, Cambodia, Ecuador, Hungary, Morocco and several other countries for using vaguely worded laws or regulations to suppress political expression, and Brazil, China and Egypt, among other nations, for using terrorism as a pretext for cracking down on civil liberties.
Human Rights Watch, which is based in New York, did not spare the United States from criticism. It denounced the nation's high incarceration rate, racial disparities in criminal justice, the widespread use of solitary confinement, and the continuing detention, without criminal charges or trials, of foreign prisoners in the American military installation at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

279 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

January 28, 2016 Thursday

Friends and refugees in need

BYLINE: BY THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM 

ABSTRACT
A tidal wave of people threatens to overwhelm America's top ally, the European Union. 

FULL TEXT
Now in his last year in office, President Obama is in legacy mode. He has much to be proud of. But if he doesn't want his achievements muddied by foreign policy, he'll spend his last year redoubling his efforts to contain the Middle East refugee crisis before it goes from a giant humanitarian problem to a giant geostrategic problem that shatters America's most important ally: the European Union.
I know - putting ''European Union'' into the lead of a column published in America is like a ''Do Not Read'' sign. Maybe I should call it ''Trump's European Union.'' That would go viral. But for the two of you still reading, this is really important. 
The meltdowns of Syria, Somalia, Eritrea, Mali, Chad and Yemen and our takedowns of Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan - without proper follow-up on our part, NATO's part or by local elites - has uncorked the worst refugee crisis since World War II. This tidal wave of migrants and refugees is a human tragedy, and their outflow from Syria and Libya in particular is destabilizing all the neighboring islands of decency: Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon, Kurdistan and Turkey. And now it is eating away at the fabric of the E.U. as well.
Why should Americans care? Because the E.U. is the United States of Europe - the world's other great center of democracy and economic opportunity. It has its military shortcomings, but with its wealth and liberal values, the E.U. has become America's primary partner in addressing climate change, managing Iran and Russia and containing disorder in the Middle East and Africa.
This partnership amplifies American power and, if the E.U. is hobbled or fractured, America will have to do so many more things around the world with much less help.
At a seminar in Davos, Switzerland, sponsored by the Wilson Center, I interviewed David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee, which oversees relief operations in more than 30 war-affected countries. He made several key points.
First, one in every 122 people on the planet today is ''fleeing a conflict'' at a time when wars between nations ''are at a record low,'' said Miliband, a former British foreign secretary. Why? Because we now have nearly 30 civil wars underway in weak states that are ''unable to meet the basic needs of citizens or contain civil war.''
Second, he said, last year the rescue committee assisted 23 million refugees and internally displaced individuals. Some 50 percent of those going to Europe come directly out of Syria and most of the rest come from Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea - and the international humanitarian relief system ''is now being overwhelmed by the numbers.''
Last year, within the E.U. bloc there were 56 million truck crossings between countries and every day 1.7 million crossings by people. Preserving that free movement of trucks, trade and people, Miliband added, is a huge ''economic prize,'' but it will not be sustained if E.U. countries feel swamped by refugees who can't be properly registered or absorbed.
More and more countries are now sealing their borders, and anti-immigrant parties are rising everywhere. Sweden has imposed border controls, and its ultranationalist Sweden Democrats party has grown from the fringe to one of the largest. Many in Germany, Sweden and Austria, which have accepted the lion's share of refugees so far, want to seal off Greece from the E.U.'s passport-free internal travel zone if Greece - the first port of entry of many refugees - is unable or unwilling to hold them.
In the past few days, The Guardian reported, national leaders and top E.U. officials warned ''that Europe's passport-free travel zone could crumble within weeks, risking the dissolution of the union.''
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was well intentioned when she opened her country to 1.1 million Arab, African and Afghan migrants last year, but it was also reckless of her to think that so many immigrants, primarily Muslims, could be properly absorbed so quickly into society in Germany - a country that took two decades and billions of dollars to absorb East Germans. Merkel's open-door policy drew even more refugees to the E.U., and now that the Germans want to stop the flow, their neighbors won't take them.
''This refugee crisis is a real arrow pointed at the heart of the European Union,'' said Miliband. ''There is no solution that confines itself within the borders of Europe.'' As long as there is ''war without law and without end in Syria,'' the refugee flow will continue, with all its destabilizing implications.
Obama did not cause this Syria problem, and he can't fix it alone - but it's not going to get fixed without U.S. leadership. I have shared the president's caution about getting involved on the ground in Syria. But I now believe we need to take another look at establishing some kind of U.S./E.U./NATO safe zone inside Syria and Libya to create space for refugees to remain in these countries. It's not a panacea or cost-free, but letting this refugee disaster fracture the E.U. will be a lot more expensive.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

283 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

January 15, 2016 Friday

Fermi, Sinatra, DiMaggio - and Capone

BYLINE: ROGER COHEN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK 

ABSTRACT
The benefits of immigration outweigh the costs. But American openness is shrinking. 

FULL TEXT
President Obama showcased a Syrian immigrant, Refaai Hamo, during his State of the Union address as evidence of ''our diversity and our openness,'' qualities that have long defined and sustained the United States.
But given the degree of openness America has offered Syrian refugees over close to five years of war in which a quarter of a million people have been killed, this political choreography qualified as serious chutzpah.
Hamo, who lost his wife and daughter in the war, is one of about 2,500 refugees Washington has admitted since 2012. That's roughly 0.06 percent of the 4.4 million Syrians who have fled their country, most of them marooned in neighboring Middle Eastern states, many staggering into Europe. 
In fact Hamo, in his relative isolation on this side of the Atlantic, might better have been offered as a symbol of the closing of the American mind - its post 9/11 susceptibility to fear of terrorism, its anxiety about downward social drift, its uncertainty about the future, its postwar fatigue, its plague-on-all-their-houses dismissal of the war-without-victory Middle East.
Obama tried to inject hope. That's where the world began with Obama. Yes, we could. In truth, after  seven years in the White House, he seemed weary himself, straining for conviction.
As the world knows by now, Obama's temperament is more inclined toward explanation than exhortation. The president is primed to out-reason the Islamic State - they want this, so we'll do that - as if reason even flirts with the outer galaxies of the Raqqa universe. When feeling does take over, as with Obama's passionate appeal this month for America to rein in its gun madness, the effect is particularly powerful because rare.
Republicans have sought to block Obama at every turn, not least on immigration, balking even at his plan to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees this year. The politics of anti-Muslim bigotry will not be far from the surface throughout this American election year.
For everyone - from Donald Trump to rightist parties in Germany and Sweden - itching to close borders, the sexual assaults on women in Cologne on New Year's Eve have become the great I-told-you-so moment. Germany last year admitted 1.1 million refugees and asylum seekers, of whom close to 40 percent are Syrian. That's a huge number. Sweden's admission last year of up to 190,000 refugees is also substantial, relative to its population.
In small towns, when hundreds of newcomers abruptly arrive, social tensions are inevitable. Far-right forces - Germany's Pegida movement or the Sweden Democrats - believe they can benefit.
The refugee flow is unlikely to stop. Saudi Arabia just took a hatchet to already forlorn international peacemaking efforts through a mass execution that infuriated Iran. No peace is possible in Syria until the Saudis and Iranians both want it.
Still, I'd bet on Germany and Sweden, societies that have absorbed substantial numbers of refugees in the past, to prove resilient, and the aging European countries most open to immigration to be the more dynamic over time. What happened in Cologne was vile. Chancellor Angela Merkel has rightly spoken of ''disgusting, criminal acts,'' and responded by toughening laws. She should go further. As a woman who reached the pinnacle, addressing refugees who have fled Muslim countries where women are often demeaned, she is uniquely placed to address the direct relationship between successful societies and female dignity, freedom and independence.
Meanwhile, let's keep some perspective. Even the most aggressive estimate of the number of asylum seekers involved in the Cologne incidents still leaves more than 1,099,500 newly admitted refugees in Germany who had nothing to do with what happened.
Merkel has done the right thing. Where would Europe be today with 1.1 million desperate people trudging from closed border to closed border? The Western responsibility for the Syrian debacle is immense. Her decision, alone among leaders, implicitly acknowledges this fact. Germany, over the past quarter-century, has absorbed 16 million former East Germans and ushered them from the paranoid, subjugated mind-set of the Soviet imperium. Its large Turkish community is unevenly integrated, but ever better with the years. Germany will handle the current influx.
Immigration is a challenge but also a measure of the confidence of a society, its preparedness for self-renewal. That confidence is low in America right now. ''The dignity of a person is untouchable'' - so begins Germany's postwar Constitution, with words drawn from bitter experience. Merkel has shown the conviction that this idea can eventually be absorbed by everyone now in Germany. She will be vindicated.
The United States, between the 1880's and 1924, admitted about 4 million Italian immigrants. As Leon Wieseltier, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, observed to me, ''We got Enrico Fermi, Frank Sinatra, Joe DiMaggio, Antonin Scalia - and Al Capone. Who in their right mind would suggest that the Italian immigration was not a great blessing for our country?''
Call it the Capone Principle: Costs of immigration are outweighed by benefits.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

285 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

January 13, 2016 Wednesday

How to help the Syrian refugees

BYLINE: MAUREEN WHITE

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 802 words

ABSTRACT
A vast majority of the more than four million people who fled want to go home once the war ends. 

FULL TEXT
In the aftermath of terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., American support for accepting more Syrian refugees has withered. The Republican presidential hopeful Donald J. Trump has called for blocking all Muslims from entering the United States, saying we are at war with radical Islam. Other politicians, including some governors and members of Congress, now specifically label Syrian refugees a threat.
The focus on whether or not to admit these desperate people to the United States obscures the bigger question of the refugee crisis. A vast majority of the more than four million refugees want to return to Syria once the war there ends. For that reason, most have stayed in the region, often languishing for years in camps in Lebanon and Jordan, rather than migrating to Europe or attempting to enter the United States. According to estimates from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are some 634,000 refugees still in Jordan, 1.1 million in Lebanon and 2.3 million in Turkey. 
These people are the responsibility of the international community, according to the 1951 Refugee Convention. The United States and all other signatories to the convention have a legal obligation to protect refugees and their well-being, which can mean resettlement when necessary.
I have met and talked with refugees in camps in Jordan and roadside tent settlements in Lebanon and those arriving on rubber boats in Greece. They are the furthest things from radical Islamic jihadists. They fled their villages after nearly five years of war in a final act of desperation. The shelling was incessant, as was the fighting. They were squeezed on all sides - by the Islamic State, by the forces of President Bashar al-Assad and by other rebels. They feared conscription and kidnapping. Many are professionals, including lawyers, dentists and engineers. Yet they had no work and couldn't feed their families. These are not terrorists; they are victims of terrorism.
But they face increasing burdens. Neither Jordan nor Lebanon allows them to work. Lebanon requires onerous re-registration fees every six months. The funds for refugee support, which the international community is supposed to provide, have fallen woefully short. As a consequence, the United Nations' World Food Program has had to cut food rations for Syrian refugees in Lebanon in half, down to $13.50 per person per month. How can anyone survive on less than 50 cents a day for food?
That is a reason so many have left the camps for the often dangerous trip to Europe. On the island of Lesbos they arrived on crowded rubber boats from Turkey, stumbled up the rocky shore, kissed the ground, tore off their life jackets and hugged one another with tears streaming down their faces. Under pressure from the European Union, Turkey has announced plans to give some refugees work permits in order to help stem the tide of migrants leaving. But Turkey is already supporting the greatest number of refugees, and its own unemployment rate is high.
Quite simply, the world has helped foster the migrant crisis by not supporting refugees in the Middle East. The United States prides itself on how much we have given to the refugee crisis, but we lag behind the European Union. On a per-capita basis, we are far outranked by many much smaller countries, among them Britain, Norway, Sweden and Denmark. Full funding of the United Nations appeals would go some way toward stemming the flow of refugees. The United States alone could give at least $500 million more to the United Nations Appeal annually.
But even with full funding, some refugees need to be resettled. Though the United States may prefer to pretend that this crisis is Europe's problem alone, it is not. United States policy in the region bears at least some responsibility for the tragic chaos in the Levant and the resulting rise of the Islamic State.
Acceptance of more refugees needs to be the second step in America's   efforts to stem the crisis. Certainly   a situation where the United States takes few, while Europe becomes overburdened, feeds friction among allies   at a time when solidarity in the West is critical. Furthermore it gives sustenance to Europe's anti-immigrant right-wing parties.
In December 2014 the United Nations identified 130,000 vulnerable Syrian refugees in immediate need of resettlement. We could easily welcome half of those. Since 2011, we have taken in only about 2,000.
At this time, when heightened anxiety about terrorism has become intertwined with the plight of millions of refugees, there must be those among us - leaders and ordinary citizens - who are clearheaded enough to act. Indeed, the cost of not doing so is far too high.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: is a senior fellow at the Foreign Policy Institute, Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

286 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 11, 2016 Monday

Washington: Schlafly: Rape Jihad Shows 'Germany Is No Longer German'

LENGTH: 898  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Religious Freedom Coalition has issued the following news release: 

  

 Globalists who demand that the West accept a wave of Muslim refugees have obliterated the face of Germany and are threatening to do the same to America, warns conservative icon Phyllis Schlafly. 


 Phyllis Schlafly

 

 Phyllis Schlafly

 

 "This massive immigration is simply changing the face of the world. It's already changed Germany. Germany isn't German anymore," Schlafly told WND. "We want America to continue to be American, with our values, our Constitution's values. The people who want to make us globalists do not have the best interests of our country at heart."

 

 Schlafly cited recent news of Islamic migrants rape jihad on women in Europe, where government officials are reported collaborating. As WND reported, public outrage is surging over reports of the mass sexual assault of German women in Cologne by Arabs and North Africans during New Year's celebrations. And reports are coming in of attacks in other German cities, such as Hamburg and Stuttgart.

 

 A leaked police report indicated several suspects in the Cologne sexual assaults claimed to be Syrian refugees. One suspect reportedly told authorities: "I am Syrian. You have to treat me kindly. Mrs. Merkel invited me."

 

 German Chancellor Angela Merkel has opened the floodgates to migrants with her "open-door" refugee policy, bringing in 1.1 million asylum-seekers in 2015. She plans to bring hundreds of thousands more Muslim migrants into the nation.

 

 German officials have reportedly been told to cover up crimes committed by migrants in order to avoid spreading panic among the population. And no arrests have been made in Cologne. Several German government officials appear anxious to make sure migrants do not receive any of the blame. Facebook, Google and Twitter are working with German authorities to control speech as angry citizens react to the chaos caused by refugees. The deal with social-media giants comes as Germans fume over 100 sexual assaults and robberies perpetrated by migrants last Friday in Cologne.

 

 Merkel gave a speech Dec. 30 warning Germans to shun "those with coldness, or even hate in their hearts, and who claim the right to be called German for themselves alone and seek to marginalize others," Deutsche Welle reported.

 

 Schlafly told WND, "There are globalists in this world, and they're not all in the United States. Some of them are in Germany, too. They put achieving globalism above every other value."

 Asylum-seekers stay in temporary accommodation in one of three huge hangars at Berlin Tempelhof Airport in Germany (Photo: The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees)

 

 Asylum-seekers stay in temporary accommodation in one of three huge hangars at Berlin Tempelhof Airport in Germany (Photo: The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees)

 

 But, she warned, the U.S. cannot allow the same globalist threat to destroy the face of America.

 

 "We believe America is a superior country. We have a superior system that has given us more freedom and prosperity than any other country in the world," she said. "And if people want to come here, they should adapt to our ways."

 

 Should the floodgates in America continue to be opened to migrants, she warned the U.S. could see similar attacks on its women.

 

 Ann Coulter's back, and she's never been better than in "Adios, America!: The Left's Plan to Turn our Country into a Third World Hellhole."

 

 Schlafly cited a book, "Adios America," in which the conservative author Ann Coulter reveals why immigration is the biggest threat facing the U.S.

 

 "[Coulter] tells how these immigrants come in and then they go after our women," Schlafly said. "It's still shocking the way they go after very young women. ... These people who are coming in now are going after 10, 11, 12-year-old girls. It's just so shocking."

 Syrian refugees (Photo: Twitter)

 

 Syrian refugees (Photo: Twitter)

 

 The only way to stop the threat? Schlafly says the U.S. must implement a temporary moratorium on immigration - much like the plan GOP front-runner Donald Trump has advocated.

 

 "We ought to close the border and say we're going to have a pause in immigration, just like we did during the 1920s," she said. "We respect our women in America. Other countries don't. Other countries treat women pretty terribly. I just think we ought to close the border and have a pause, just like Trump believes."

 

 The conservative firebrand also blasted feminists who remain silent as Muslim refugees sexually assault women.

 

 "They're not speaking up on behalf of the women who are mistreated," she said. "It's very curious. But in any event, it shows that their allegiance is probably more to the Muslims than it is to feminism."

 

 WND asked Schlafly: Is it too late for Europe to wake up?

 

 "It's almost too late," she said. "They get so many of these people who don't abide by laws - and really don't even believe in those laws. We want to make sure we don't let them into this country."

 

 Schlafly called America "the greatest country in the world" - regardless of what globalists would like its citizens to believe.

 

 "We don't want to give it up," she said. "We absolutely do not want to say that we're just like everybody else. We're not like everybody else. We're better than everyone else."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

291 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 637  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: U.S Department of Defense has issued the following news release:

  

 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping them build new lives in all 50 states. 


 Identifying Refugees

 

 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?

 

 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?

 

 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal Year 2016:

 

     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to respond to emergent situations.

 

 Where Do Refugees Come From?

 

 Date: 10/21/2015 Description: Bar chart showing number of refugee arrivals by processing region for FY2006 - FY2015. - State Dept Image

 Entering the U.S. Resettlement System

 

 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S. resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security screening.

 Refugee Screening Process

 

 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of Defense.

 

 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant. USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a "sponsorship assurance" from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life

 

 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

293 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

January 2, 2016 Saturday

Guest commentary: Setting the record straight on Syrian refugees

BYLINE: By Mark Hetfield, guest commentary © 2016 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 575 words

In a Dec. 11 guest commentary, retired professor Abraham Miller expresses concern about Syrian refugees who may be resettled to Contra Costa County. I am writing to allay those concerns, which I am sure are shared by others, with some facts. 
I am the president and CEO of HIAS, the global Jewish organization that protects refugees. In Walnut Creek, HIAS resettles refugees in close partnership with Jewish Family and Community Services East Bay.
Miller is concerned that he does not know of any plan for meeting the needs of the refugees, whom he correctly notes have survived the trauma of war. He fears that the host community will confront integration challenges as Europe is facing absorbing Muslims from the Middle East.
The great strength of America in general, however, and of the Bay Area in particular, is that we truly are a nation of immigrants and refugees. Refugees of all religions and ethnicities very quickly identify as Americans.
For Europe, becoming "French" or "German" or even "European" is indeed proving to be a much greater challenge.
Miller speculates that only refugees in camps are eligible for processing, that there are few Christian refugees in camps, and that therefore all resettled Syrian refugees are Muslims. These are myths.
While HIAS does not delineate between camp and "urban" refugees, of the seven Syrian refugee families whom I recently met in Ohio, six were resettled out of Jordan and one out of Egypt. None had spent any time in a refugee camp. All were referred by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), all were thoroughly vetted by the United States government, and all are incredibly grateful to America.
Of all the refugees resettled by HIAS across the country, so far 10 percent of the Syrian refugees resettled have been Christian, and more than 35 percent of Iraqi refugees have been Christian or other non-Muslim minorities.
It is important not to confuse the U.S. refugee resettlement process with the refugees spontaneously arriving in Europe, nor with immigrants and visitors arriving through non-refugee programs.
Refugees coming to the U.S. are subject to more vetting and screening than any other noncitizen arriving in America, subject to multiple layers of screening and review. If one vetting layer is ineffective for a particular refugee, there are numerous others to identify potential security threats.
The Department of Homeland Security recently produced a very helpful video which can tell you more about the process: https://youtu.be/aQUIxQ6TFZc
Finally, refugees are not simply dropped off in places like Walnut Creek -- they are all received and assisted by community-based agencies like HIAS' partner agency, the Jewish Family and Community Services of East Bay, which last year resettled 109 refugees from all over the world (including only one from Syria).
Catholic Charities and the International Rescue Committee, based in Oakland, resettle smaller numbers in Walnut Creek. It is the responsibility of these agencies to welcome the refugees, find them housing, and assist them with employment and integration.
We invite you to join us in welcoming refugees, as the American experience has shown time and time again that refugees, when they are welcomed into our communities, make great contributions.
Refugees are an asset to America, not a burden. This is our tradition.
Mark Hetfield is the president and CEO of HIAS, the global Jewish nonprofit that protects refugees.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

298 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

December 22, 2015 Tuesday

Germany, refugee nation

BYLINE: ROGER COHEN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 840 words

ABSTRACT
There's a new can-do nation. It's called Germany. Merkel has redeemed the Europe that once closed its frontiers to Jews fleeing Germany. 

FULL TEXT
There's a new can-do nation. It's called Germany. The United States, fear-ridden, has passed the torch.
Throughout the extraordinary process that has seen roughly one million refugees arrive in Germany this year, Chancellor Angela Merkel has had a consistent refrain: ''Wir schaffen das'' - or ''We can do this.'' The gesture in question is the most extraordinary redemptive act by any European nation in many years.
Germans on the whole have understood. They have understood that to flee Syria through Islamic State checkpoints, place your family in flimsy boats on stormy waters, and trudge across Europe in search of a home is not a desperate decision. It is a reasonable decision if the alternative is to see your children blown up by a barrel bomb or your daughter raped by a jihadi. Post-war Germans are reasonable people. 
The United States would have had to admit about 4 million refugees this year to take in a similar proportion of its population. It has fallen more than 3.9 million short of that mark.
Most of the refugees in Germany are from Syria. The United States has admitted about 1,900 refugees from Syria over the past four years. Yes, you read that right. President Obama has now pledged to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees - a decision that had met defiance from more than two dozen Republican governors eager to conflate the words ''Muslim'' or ''Middle Eastern'' with terrorist.
Whatever happened to ''the home of the brave?''
Set aside the fact that the Syrian crisis cannot be disentangled from the spillover of the Iraq war, and so America's direct responsibility is engaged. Set aside the fact that Obama said in 2011 that President Bashar al-Assad must step aside, and so America's responsibility is engaged. Set aside the presidential ''red line'' not upheld in 2013. Even then, by any reasonable measure, the American response to the Syrian refugee crisis has been pitiful.
For a land of immigrants peopled over centuries by families fleeing war, famine or hardship, it has been especially pitiful.
Germany has stepped in. ''Wir schaffen das'' - we can do this. The can-do spirit has made a trans-Atlantic crossing.
Merkel's place in the history books was already assured. She was the woman who over a decade steered a united Germany to a self-assurance striking for a country that, even at the turn of the century, was still uncertain if it could allow itself a modicum of pride. But with her decision this year to admit Syrian and other refugees, she has become a towering European figure, certainly the equal of such postwar German giants as Konrad Adenauer, Helmut Schmidt and Helmut Kohl - perhaps even surpassing them because her Germany is its own master whereas theirs was still under degrees of American tutelage.
''She does not want to be - she refuses to be - the person who witnessed a serious fracture of the European Union,'' Julian Reichelt, the editor in chief of Bild Online, told me. ''She will throw money at a problem, as with Greece. She will admit an unlimited number of refugees. And she will go down in history as a great European who defended the Union no matter what.''
When Merkel decided last summer to admit the refugees, she averted violence that might have spilled out of control. Critics within her own Christian Democrat party portray her as emotional. But for a leader committed to preserving the European idea, her decision was rational.
Raised in East Germany, she owes her freedom to European unity. It is a personal matter. The last time Europe was awash in millions of refugees was in 1945 as the Third Reich collapsed. It is a historical matter. Germany could not turn its back. Still the decision required statesmanship - that quaint,   almost forgotten word - and the conviction that any risk of terrorism could be managed.
One million refugees change the landscape. They are in supermarkets. They are in hospitals. They are in schools. Germans have been accepting, despite the huge cost. A far-right party may benefit, but the consensus is this had to be done.
As a result, over the next generation, Germany will become a stronger, more vital, more dynamic, more open country. Abdulfattah ''John'' Jandali, a Syrian immigrant, was the biological father of Steve Jobs. Perhaps a future Syrian-German Jobs has just entered school.
Germany has shamed its European partners, including Britain. A Europe-wide program for refugees is needed. Germany can't take in another million in 2016. ''There is no real plan beyond buying time to get the rest of Europe on board,'' Reichelt said.
In a grim year, Merkel has redeemed the Europe that once closed its frontiers to Jews fleeing Germany. When, at unification, Kohl spoke of a ''blooming landscape'' in the former East Germany, he was derided. But it came to pass. Germany can do this. As for can't-do America, that's another story. Fear and electoral politics constitute an explosive brew.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

306 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 6, 2015 Sunday

To Undermine ISIS, We Should Welcome Syrian Refugees

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Berkeley: Frederick S. Pardee RAND Graduate School has issued the following news release:

  

  It will take some time to parse all of the events in the Paris attacks, but reporting indicates that at least one of the suicide bombers used a stolen Syrian passport and followed the refugee path to France via Turkey and Greece. 


 

 This one attacker now has politicians on both sides of the Atlantic calling for moratoria on Syrian refugee programs.

 

 We argue that the opposite approach--taking in even more Syrian refugees--is not only humane but could bleed the Islamic State militant group (ISIS) dry and deliver the kind of &ldquo;strategic messaging&rdquo; victory sought by the U.S.-led coalition.

 

 The United Nations has registered 4.3 million refugees from the conflict in Syria and an additional 370,000 from Iraq. Approximately 123,000 of these refugees have sought asylum in Europe. Together, Canada and the United States have taken in about 5,400.

 

 The international media have documented their journeys. These refugees have risked hypothermia, starvation and death. Families have been separated, and many loved ones have been lost. Yet they keep leaving their homes in search of a safer, better life.

 

 These people deserve compassion for what they have experienced and admiration for their bravery. Of the 123,000, just one has so far been implicated in an attack.

 

 The humanitarian crisis, by any measure, outweighs the risk. But that was known before the attacks in Paris. The challenge is that these attacks have increased pressure on government officials to do more. The calls for action are drowning out the cries for compassion. Instead of blocking Syrian refugees, more should be done. Taking in more Syrians could help defeat ISIS.

 

 After all, what good is an Islamic caliphate if nobody wants to live there? The primary draw of ISIS for supporters inside Syria, Iraq and elsewhere is its declaration of an Islamic caliphate in June 2014. Soon thereafter, 35 extremist groups based in Egypt, Libya, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, the Caucasus, Somalia and so on declared the creation of outlying ISIS &ldquo;provinces&rdquo; in their countries.

 

 ISIS leaders have called on Muslims worldwide to migrate to these areas and take up residence in the true caliphate. But approximately 60 percent of Syrian and Iraqi refugees, according to the United Nations, are fleeing ISIS territory. Fewer and fewer people want to live in their caliphate.

 

 ISIS leaders apparently have noticed and are worried about this reality. Over the past several months, they have released statements urging, cajoling and even demanding that the refugees return to Syria and Iraq. Unfortunately, some recent reports show that internally displaced persons in Syria are moving to ISIS's de facto capital, Raqqa, to avoid more intense ground fighting elsewhere.

 

 This trend could be reversed by offering these people a viable alternative outside of Syria. Perhaps the best way to destroy ISIS is to strip it of its most precious commodity: people.

 

 Facilitating the outflow of refugees leaves ISIS with fewer people to tax, control, torture, rape, or press-gang into military service. Fewer people means fewer ways to hide from coalition airstrikes and, potentially, from a coalition or coalition-supported ground invasion.

 

 Facilitating the outflow of refugees leaves ISIS with fewer people to tax, control, torture, rape, or press-gang into military service.

 

 Perhaps most important, as people flee and entire caliphate neighborhoods empty out, it will become increasingly difficult to sell the ISIS narrative either in videos or to new recruits who will arrive in places like Raqqa or Mosul, Iraq, to find them devoid of life.

 

 Without people there can be no ISIS caliphate. Without ISIS, the refugees are just desperate, destitute people who need help.

 

 The small, moderate country of Jordan has shown how it is possible to safely take in hundreds of thousands of refugees. Jordan also has shown how it is possible to turn diasporas to its advantage, while it still faces serious challenges integrating three large refugee communities (Palestinian, Iraqi and Syrian).

 

 Palestinians are now among the most successful businesspeople in Jordan, and they serve honorably in the armed forces. The Syrian refugees who fled the Hama massacres in 1982 are now flourishing as Jordanian citizens. Iraqis who migrated to Jordan in the early 1990s generated an economic boom in the capital, Amman.

 

 And while the nearly 700,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan lead mostly uncertain lives, they have not yet posed any threat to the country or its government. Syrians are generally well-educated, technically competent and entrepreneurial; they offer many benefits to any host nation.

 

 If politicians and policymakers truly want to undermine ISIS and reduce any perceived threat from Syrian refugees, they should advocate that the United States take in more refugees, perhaps even more than the 65,000 suggested by the International Rescue Committee two months ago. This effort should be carefully planned and executed to ensure they are welcomed, cared for and, as necessary, assimilated into the American melting pot.

 

 More immediately, the United States should dramatically expand its already generous aid programs to support Syrian refugee operations in Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and now in Europe. If nothing else, the United States can provide an absolute good by helping Syrian families in need while aiding allied states that are now bearing the brunt of the refugee crisis.

 

 The alternatives to assisting and accepting Syrian refugees are counterproductive both to U.S. foreign policy and to more immediate physical security concerns. Forcing Syrian refugees to remain in ISIS-held areas, or drifting from border to border, or huddled in dusty, hopeless refugee camps will increase ISIS's recruiting pool and undermine all efforts to stabilize the Middle East.

 

 Rejecting Syrian refugee families could undercut efforts to engage with moderate Muslims and increase anti-American sentiment in the Middle East and Europe. Over time, rejection of Syrian refugees is likely to increase rather than decrease the threat of terrorism.

 

 The Paris attacks have provided a brief window of opportunity to demonstrate that America remains the &ldquo;shining city on the hill&rdquo; for the world's poor, tired and huddled masses. Demonstrating American goodwill to Syrian refugees is the best way to help defeat ISIS and rehabilitate America's image in the chaotic Middle East.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

309 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 4, 2015 Friday

Washington: Compassion with Caution and Resolve

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Tom Cole has issued the following news release:

  

 In response to the escalating conflict in the Middle East, thousands of refugees have fled the violence, terrorism and oppression directed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/ISIS). Without question, this flood of refugees into Europe and their potential resettlement into the United States calls for compassion, but our handling of the crisis also demands that we exercise serious caution. 


 

 Certainly, I believe that most Syrian and Iraqi refugees are seeking to escape ISIL's extreme jihadism and senseless violence. However, I remain concerned about the safety of American citizens if these refugees are accepted in large numbers under the current screening and surveillance system. As we learned after ISIL's attacks in Paris, the organization will clearly use whatever means necessary to spread its influence--even having its fighters pose as refugees. Unfortunately, I fully expect ISIL will continue to use the refugee crisis to send out terrorists, infiltrate western nations and pick up recruits to spread more violence around the world.

 

 When opening America's doors to refugees, we need to ensure that ISIL loyalists don't come along with those legitimately fleeing war and persecution. Before resettling any individuals in search of safe haven, we must prioritize the security of American citizens. And those responsible for the safety of the American people must be willing to say they are confident that refugees pose no threat to our county's citizens.

 

 Recently, in response to the increasing influence of ISIL and the terrorist organization's suspected exploitation of refugees, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. While this legislation halts admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States, it's important to understand that the SAFE Act wouldn't prevent these individuals from eventually seeking refuge in our country. Instead, it simply requires that improvements be made to the vetting process before taking refugees in, which includes greater scrutiny during background checks and requires top U.S. security officials to independently verify that any individual resettled in our country poses no security threat to America. I believe that these higher standards for vetting are the responsible and appropriate thing to do, and it rightly reassures the American people that our compassion will not be wrongly extended to persons who thirst for violence and aim to destroy us.

 

 Fortunately, acceptance of refugees is not the only way to show American compassion or, considering geographical distance alone, even the best way. In fact, we are already extending a helping hand through humanitarian aid both public and private, and I certainly expect the same generosity to continue in the future.  

 

 However, we should always remember that the refugee crisis isn't going away. In order to stop the flood of refugees from the Middle East, ISIL must first be contained and ultimately defeated. Unfortunately, as long as this terrorist organization is allowed to gain ground in Iraq, Syria and other surrounding countries, refugees will be forced to leave their homes and flee to neighboring countries, Europe and North America.

 

 I believe that the best long-term assistance we can provide is in demonstrating strength in our resolve to destroy this despicable enemy responsible for the atrocities against humanity. Having seen what ISIL is capable of, I hope that President Obama will recognize the fact that his so-called strategy isn't working. In order to protect ISIL's innocent victims abroad and our own citizens at home, we must waste no time in destroying this vicious enemy.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

310 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 4, 2015 Friday

Washington: Cole Op-Ed in Tulsa World: Helping the world's refugees and keeping America safe

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Tom Cole has issued the following news release:

  

 If you have followed the news even remotely over the past two years or so, coverage of the Middle East has documented an escalating conflict due to the rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in the region. The terrorist organization's senseless acts of violence, terrorism and oppression have uprooted many individuals and families and even reduced communities to rubble. Whatever the plight of these Syrian and Iraqi refugees that has caused them to flee, the mass exit from their homes and countries is a very real crisis that must be handled carefully by America and our allies in the days ahead. 


 

 While I don't doubt that many refugees are genuinely trying to escape the volatile situation in the Middle East and seeking safe haven for their families, I remain skeptical about accepting them in large numbers into the United States under the current screening and surveillance system. Unfortunately, in wake of the recent Paris attacks, it is evident that ISIS seeks to spread its influence through heinous and senseless acts of terror far beyond the area it occupies. Considering that one of the Paris attackers posed as a refugee from Syria when he entered Europe, we know that ISIS will continue to use the refugee tragedy and any other means necessary to smuggle terrorists into other countries, infiltrate western society and pick up recruits to spread more violence around the world.

 

 Without question, we must be certain that isn't allowed to happen in the United States when opening our doors to refugees. Our first obligation and duty is to keep American citizens safe and prevent terrorists from wreaking havoc in the United States. Therefore, we must adequately anticipate, prevent and answer threats to our national security. Especially having seen what is capable of happening in Paris and Beirut by this evil enemy and after ISIS's downing of a Russian airliner, I believe that U.S. security officials have an obligation to verify that any individuals resettled on American soil pose no risk to the safety of our citizens.

 

 Last week, in response to the increasing influence of ISIS and the terrorist organization's suspected exploitation of refugees, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act to halt admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States. Speaker Paul Ryan explained, &ldquo;If our law enforcement and intelligence community cannot verify that each and every person coming here is not a security threat, then they shouldn't be allowed in. Right now, the government can't certify these standards, so this plan pauses the program. It's a security test -- not a religious test. This reflects our values.&rdquo;

 

 It's important to understand that the SAFE Act doesn't prevent refugees from ever seeking safe haven in our country. Rather, it requires that, before we accept them into our country, improvements be made to the refugee vetting process, including extra scrutiny during background checks. It also requires the FBI Director, Secretary of Homeland Security and Director of National Intelligence to independently verify and vow that any individual resettled in our country poses no security risk to America.

 

 I believe that these higher standards for vetting are the responsible and appropriate thing to do. It reassures the American people that our compassion will not be wrongly extended to persons who thirst for violence and want to destroy us. I reject the notion that the only way to express the values and compassion of America is by allowing upwards of 10,000 refugees into our country. We have already demonstrated our willingness to lend a helping hand by sending generous humanitarian aid both public and private, and I expect such generosity to continue in the months ahead.

 

 Unfortunately, the refugee crisis is a worsening symptom of the overarching problem: ISIS is not contained. As long as the terrorist organization is allowed to gain ground in Iraq and Syria, refugees will continue to flee and seek safe haven elsewhere. If we truly want to help these people who are being driven away from their homelands, the United States needs to exercise strong resolve in containing and ultimately defeating enemies at the source of the conflict. But that demands a clear strategy from the Obama administration.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

311 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

December 4, 2015 Friday

Washington: Terror threat demands refugee vetting

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Pete Olson has issued the following news release:

  

 America is a compassionate nation. We are primarily a nation of immigrants who come here seeking the American dream. We have given people the chance at a better life thanks to a government that prizes liberty over control. 


 

 We have been blessed by geography that shields us from many of the global conflicts that are impacting Europe and the Middle East. The obvious exception was the 9/11 al Qaeda terror attacks when almost 3,000 Americans were murdered. That attack was the beginning of Americans living under a higher risk for direct attacks. Terrorist groups like al Qaeda and ISIS work feverishly to penetrate our defenses and hit our homeland again.

 

 America exists today under a veil of hostility by extremists in the world who hate the very things we stand for - life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The recent Paris attacks were a powerful reminder of what our enemy is capable of. This is not a time for reluctance on the part of our leaders. America and our allies must come together with one voice and say no to those seeking to harm and invoke terror in the hearts of our citizens and the world.

 

 The crisis in Syria has become a global problem with more than four million Syrians fleeing their homeland in search of a safe haven. They are flocking to Europe and trying to come here for help as well. Make no mistake, ISIS views this as a prime opportunity to infiltrate these refugees and use our compassion and generosity against us. That is why we must reassess our current process for accepting refugees to strengthen the vetting process to ensure that those who come to America are truly in need of our help, and not people seeking to destroy our nation.  

 

 President Obama continues to minimize the threats we face and committed to bringing up to 10,000 refugees into the United States in the next year. While that is a small number when compared to the total number of refugees, it is critical that before we open our doors, we ensure the safety and security of all Americans.

 

 The rise of ISIS and their terror in Paris demands that we change the Syrian and Iraq refugee program with a new, enhanced screening process that balances America's compassion with our sacred duty to protect our citizens. Last week, the House passed a bipartisan, veto-proof bill to put the current program on hold until we can strengthen the screening process for those seeking asylum here. One component that rightfully raises red flags for our security experts is a lack of information on many of these Syrian refugees. Under our bill, the FBI cannot approve new Syrian refugees until it has revamped the security-check process to meet the new requirements.

 

 The bill requires the FBI to certify that the applicant has been put through a thorough background check to determine whether he or she is a threat. Then the Department of Homeland Security secretary, in conjunction with the FBI and Director of National Intelligence - must certify to Congress that the applicant is not a threat to the United States. The Senate should pass this bill as soon as possible and give the president the tools necessary to protect the homeland.

 

 The American experiment has succeeded for hundreds of years and represents a beacon of hope for many across the globe living under the boot of oppression. The only way we can continue to provide that liberty is to protect the wellbeing of the people working to preserve it.  As President Reagan once said, &ldquo;Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn't pass it to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same, or one day we will spend our sunset years telling our children and our children's children what it was once like in the United States where men were free.&rdquo;

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

314 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

December 1, 2015 Tuesday  
Politifact.com Edition

BUSH SAYS LAW REQUIRES RELIGIOUS SCREENING OF REFUGEES

BYLINE: JON GREENBERG

SECTION: POLITIFACT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1199 words

"It is already in the law that there is a requirement to screen (refugees) for religion."
- Jeb Bush on Sunday, November 29th, 2015 in an interview on "Face the Nation"
* * *
THE RULING: MOSTLY TRUE
The probability that terrorists would try to take advantage of the refugee wave landing in Europe has led many Republicans and some Democrats to call for tighter policies here at home.
Republican candidate Jeb Bush has rejected one of the more hard-line proposals that would ban all Syrian Muslim refugees from entering the United States. But Bush has said that America ought to give priority to Christians fleeing the ravages of religious militants under the command of the Islamic State.
Asked on CBS News' Face the Nation if a Christian preference wouldn't play into the ISIL narrative that their war was a struggle between Islam and Christianity, Bush said this wouldn't represent any real change. 
"It is already in the law that there is a requirement to screen for religion," Bush said Nov. 29, 2015. "This is the practice of our country. There was a bipartisan bill that of course didn't pass in Congress this year to provide preference for Christians who are being slaughtered in the Middle East, persecuted based on their faith. Religious minorities, I think, should have some preference."
We decided to look at whether American officials are legally bound to ask refugees about their religion.
The short answer is, it depends.
If a refugee says he or she fears religious persecution, then their religion absorbs a lot of time in the interview process. But if their fear stems from their political views, then there is no obligation to ask about their religion.
Still, experts said it is standard practice to ask refugees about their religion, even if they are not specifically escaping religious persecution.
The Bush press office pointed us to an opinion piece in the National Review that paraphrased the relevant part of the Immigration and Nationality Act (section 101(a)(42)) this way: "An alien applying for admission must establish that ... religion [among other things] ... was or will be at least one central reason for persecuting the applicant."
The full list of possible grounds for persecution includes "race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion."
A State Department spokesperson told PolitiFact that there is no legal requirement for refugees to indicate a religious preference. But if they make religion the basis of their claim, then many questions about their religious background follow.
In some particular cases, the State Department designates certain groups as ones of "special humanitarian concern" and in the past, religion has helped define such groups. Examples include Soviet Jews and Iranian religious minorities.
For those special groups, religion is an essential aspect of the person's background, said Mark Hetfield, president of HIAS, a refugee assistance group that began over a century ago to help Jews fleeing Eastern Europe. (HIAS today works with people of any faith from around the world and has worked with both the UN and the State Department to help refugees.)
"But this is not due to a legal requirement," he said. "This is to see if they fit in the parameters of the program."
A standard practice
Most refugees begin their formal path to resettlement with an interview conducted by staff of the United Nations High Commission on Refugees. If a person is headed toward the United States, their next stop is a Resettlement Support Center overseen by the U.S. State Department.
According to the department's press office, the resettlement centers routinely ask about religion. Hetfield affirmed that.
"There is a data field for religion which is always filled in," he said. "If it is not directly relevant to the claim, U.S Citizenship and Immigration (staff) won't ask about it, but it will be in the applicant's file."
We reached Bill Frelick, director of the refugee rights program at Human Rights Watch, when he was in Bulgaria interviewing Syrian, Iraqi and Afghan asylum seekers. Frelick said religious affiliation is a typical but optional question for refugees.
The practitioners we reached found Bush's emphasis on the legal dimension of asking about religion problematic. To them, simply asking is not screening. It provides information that might ease a refugee's transition to life in America and finding a place of worship. Screening in the sense of vetting takes place only when the refugee says he or she fears religious persecution.
Refugees are tracked based on the countries they have fled, not their religion, so we don't know the fraction of refugees claiming religious persecution. Anecdotally, religion plays a role in many refugee applications in the Middle East, whether the person is Sunni or Shia Muslim, Christian, Jewish, Baha'i, or some other faith.
Our ruling
Bush said that there is a legal requirement to screen for religion.
U.S. immigration law does state that American officials must dig into a person's religion if their refugee status is based on a fear of religious persecution. However, there is no formal requirement if the person bases the claim on other grounds. In practice, questions about religion are common even if they are not required.
His statement is accurate but needs clarification. We rate it Mostly True.
* * *
About this statement:
Published: Tuesday, December 1st, 2015 at 5:54 p.m.
Researched by: Jon Greenberg
Edited by: Katie Sanders
Subjects: Foreign Policy, Religion, Terrorism
Sources: CBS News, Face the Nation, Feb. 29, 2015; National Review, Refugee 'Religious Test' Is 'Shameful' and 'Not American' ... Except that Federal Law Requires It, Nov. 18, 2015; U.S. Code, Immigration and Nationality Act; U.S. State Department, US Refugee Admissions Program Report to Congress, Oct. 1, 2015; U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Refugees and Asylees: 2012, April 2013; U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement, The U.S. Refugee Resettlement Program - an Overview, Sept. 14, 2015; US. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Annual Report - Syria, 2015; Refugee Council USA "Security Screening of Refugees Admitted to the United States,"; State Department, "U.S. Refugee Admissions Program FAQs," May 31, 2013; State Department, "U.S. Refugee Admissions Program,"; New York Times, Jeb Bush Urges Caution on Accepting Syrian Refugees, Nov. 17, 2015; PolitiFact, Donald Trump says if you're from Syria and a Christian, you can't come to the U.S. as a refugee, July 20, 2015; PolitiFact, Jeb Bush: 'It takes almost a year for a refugee to be processed in the United States', Nov. 15, 2015; Interview, Annie Wilson, executive vice-president, Lutheran Immigrant and Refugee Service, Nov. 30, 2015; Email interview, Mark Hetfield, president, HIAS, Nov. 30, 2015; Email interview, Danna Van Brandt, spokeswoman, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, U.S. State Department, Nov. 30, 2015; Email interview, Bill Frelick, director, Refugee Program, Human Rights Watch, Nov. 30, 2015; Interview, Judy Golub, spokeswoman, U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Dec. 1, 2015; Interview, Sanja Bebic, refugee integration, Center for Applied Linguistics, Dec. 1, 2015

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) PHOTO - Screengrab: Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush said Christian refugees in the Middle East should be given preference.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

315 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

November 30, 2015 Monday  
The International New York Times

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS TO THE INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK TIMES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 663 words

So many refugees, so little space
Re ''A refugee, not a criminal'' (Editorial, Nov. 5): In recounting the tragic story of the arrest in Britain of a Sudanese refugee, Abdul Rahman Haroun, as he emerged from the Channel Tunnel, you conclude that ''Europe must look for a humane and equitable solution for thousands of Mr. Harouns.'' 
  You should have written a million. 
  Europe will never be able to handle the burden. Belgium and the Netherlands, to name two countries with a suffocating population density, simply do not have the space. Nor do we have the money to pay the generous amounts of aid imposed by the Geneva Conventions.
  Almost all European countries have high debt and few jobs. We lack housing for the refugees, who will likely remain in so-called temporary shelters for years to come. Denmark has already decided to stop making migrants a priority when it comes to allocating public housing. In Belgium we already face social unrest and strikes due to efforts to control the budget deficit, but the national debt is increasing.
  The United States doesn't even give its own citizens the kind of benefits European countries are supposed to extend to all migrants. The least Europeans could expect is that the major rich countries such as Canada and the United States take up a larger share of the burden instead of blaming Europe for inadequate migration policies.
  Renaat Horemans, Mol, Belgium
  Sweden's untouchable issue 
  Re ''Sweden's self-inflicted nightmare'' (Views, Nov. 14): The author asserts that Sweden, by making immigration an untouchable political issue, will bring ''itself to the brink of collapse.'' He is correct in his assertion that annually admitting refugees in numbers equivalent to 2 percent of the population is a well-meaning but unsustainable response to the misery in the Middle East. It simply puts too much pressure on a small country that is already facing a housing crisis, ethnic segregation and high youth unemployment.
  But Sweden's overly generous asylum policy is not the main reason that the country is in serious trouble. The real cause, obviously, is the turmoil in the Middle East, for which Sweden bears very little, if any, responsibility. To tell the Swedes that they brought their refugee crisis on themselves is like telling firefighters who rush into a burning building and get injured in the process that they only have themselves to blame.
   Simon Hedlin, Cambridge, Mass.
  The writer is a former political adviser for human rights and foreign policy to the Swedish government.
  Saudi Arabia rejects terrorism
  Re ''Saudi Arabia, an ISIS that has made it'' (Review, Nov. 21-22): Kamel Daoud identifies the treacherous environment in which vulnerable youths are radicalized, but mistakenly associates it with the Islam practiced in Saudi Arabia. Our Islam can appear conservative to outsiders but it absolutely rejects the extremism behind terrorist attacks in France, Saudi Arabia and elsewhere around the world. The objective of the Al Saud's alliance with Abdul Wahhab in the 18th century, and with his descendants in the early 20th century, was the political unity and independence of the Arabian Peninsula, not any agenda of extremism. Extremism and injustice do not require a label, only a response.
  Some Saudi donations to Islamic charities before 9/11 are said to have been diverted by foolish and reckless extremists, but no country has done more since 9/11 in the fight against Al Qaeda than Saudi Arabia. The Kingdom's mission is to identify extremism and to eliminate it. That is why it is so unfortunate that Mr. Daoud associates us with the likes of ISIS, which has perpetrated attacks in our own country and constitute our sworn enemy. Let us join together to defeat this movement of death and destruction instead of launching into sterile debates.
  Hassan Yassin Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/30/opinion/letters-to-the-editor.html

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

317 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 28, 2015 Saturday

Washington: Lofgren statement on Republican Refugee Bill

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Zoe Lofgren has issued the following news release:

  

  U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren issued the following statement on the House floor today in opposition to the Republican legislation to halt the U.S. Refugee program: 


 

 "Thank you Mr. Speaker -

 

 "All of us watched with horror the events in Paris. November 13th was France's September 11th, and all of us have paused to consider what further should be done to make sure America is safe, because our first obligation as Members of Congress is to make sure America is safe.

 

 "And so as we watch the refugees from the Middle East pouring into Europe, concern has been expressed - and I think correctly - who are these people? And hidden among the many helpless victims, are there some that would pose a threat?

 

 "It's worth noting that our process for refugees is completely different. No one gets into the United States unless they have been completely vetted. This process starts with the UN referring only those people who are vulnerable - who have been tortured, who have been victimized, and who are helpless women and children - for screening by us. We have a process that includes soliciting information from the DEA, from the intelligence agencies, from the FBI and the like, and all of those agencies have a veto - if there's a problem they veto the admission.

 

 "The process takes two years or more and a very small number of people actually are admitted. Of the two thousand or so Syrian refugees who've been admitted to the United States, the overwhelming majority are children or widows who have been victims of torture, who have seen their husbands beheaded.

 

 "The bill before us, as has been described by the speaker and the author would stop the refugee program - they call it a pause - they would stop it because it completely restructures this very elaborate system we have by putting the FBI as the lead agency; they'd have to hire agents and send them over. They describe it as a pause - we think it'd take several years to set it up.

 

 "Why is that a bad idea? ISIS is our enemy and we need to fight them and we need to defeat them. But we're fighting on two levels, one - military, but it's also a fight of values. America stands for freedom; we are the beacon of light, of democracy, of freedom in the world. Part of that value in America is allowing people who are escaping monsters like ISIS to be able to become Americans like us. We need to screen and make sure we are completely safe, but if we stop that program, we give ISIS a win.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

319 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 27, 2015 Friday

Washington: Perry Applauds Passage of Bill to Protect Americans from ISIS

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Scott Perry has issued the following news release:

  

 The U.S. House of Representatives took an important first step Thursday towards protecting the American people from ISIS and other Islamic terrorists looking to exploit our refugee program and conduct attacks in the U.S.  ISIS repeatedly has stated its intent to embed its operatives into the flow of Syrian refugees seeking entrance into Western Europe and the United States. 


 

 H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, would enact the most robust national security vetting process in history for any refugee population and assures the American people that we'll do everything possible to prevent terrorists from reaching our shores. H.R. 4038 passed by a huge bipartisan majority of 289 to 137, contradicting President Obama's efforts to turn this into a partisan issue and clearly refuting his existing policy.

 

 &ldquo;America is the land of immigrants.  We have the most generous refugee policies in the world and we want that tradition to continue. However, we must take common sense steps to ensure that those seeking refuge in the United States don't take advantage of our generosity," Perry said.

 

 The United States already has donated more than $4.5 billion to assist Syrian refugees - more than any other country.

 

 Top national security officials within the Obama Administration, including FBI Director Comey, repeatedly have warned that the U.S. government does not have the resources and dramatically lacks the information needed to fully vet refugees from Syria. At a recent House Judiciary Committee hearing, Director Comey admitted that there are risks associated with admitting Syrian refugees to the United States.

 

 The American SAFE Act requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States, and certification that none pose a threat. Specifically, no refugee from Iraq or Syria will be admitted into the U.S. unless:

 

 - the FBI Director certifies the background investigation of each refugee; and

 - the Secretary of Homeland Security, along with the FBI Director and the Director of National Intelligence, certifies to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the United States.

 

 Under this legislation, no Syrian or Iraqi refugee may enter the United States until the American people's representatives in Congress receive these certifications.

 

 Perry added, &ldquo;The primary duty of the federal government is to keep the American people safe. So until there's a certification process in place to prevent terrorist threats in America, the Syrian and Iraqi resettlement program should be paused. Admitting Syrian refugees without these safeguards unnecessarily places our national security and American lives at risk.&rdquo;

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

322 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Kirkpatrick statement on Syrian refugee bill, H.R. 4038

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Ann Kirkpatrick has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick gave the following statement in advance of today's vote on legislation from House Republicans that would effectively shut down refugee resettlement from Syria and Iraq, possibly for many years, and severely limit future resettlement of refugees from other regions. 


 

 &ldquo;I will vote against this legislation because it presents a false choice and it betrays the core values of the United States of America.&rdquo;

 

 &ldquo;The United States, a country of immigrants, has a long history of welcoming the persecuted and oppressed. Our beloved Statue of Liberty, a gift from the people of France, affirms America's core values of welcoming these 'huddled masses, yearning to breathe free.' And yet today, some politicians are demanding we close America's door to Syrian refugees as they flee the brutality of ISIS and the Assad regime. These are families reeling from mass murder, teenage girls escaping sexual slavery, toddlers sleeping in dirty, dangerous encampments. The political discourse - and now legislation - targeting these refugees in the wake of the Paris attacks is truly beneath us.

 

 &ldquo;Our nation must fight terrorism and global threats with every resource we have, and with all the might we can muster. We have the greatest military and intelligence operations in the world, and we must do much more to destroy ISIS. Here at home, our top priority is the safety of the American people, and our refugee vetting process must continue to reflect that. The current process involves rigorous screenings by multiple agencies, including the FBI, Homeland Security and Defense, to apprehend anyone who poses a danger and attempts to hide among the refugee population.

 

 &ldquo;America must always hold its lamp high as a beacon of hope and opportunity. We must not succumb to fear or paranoia. And we must welcome these 'huddled masses, yearning to breathe free.' This is who we are.&rdquo;

 

 

 BACKGROUND

 

 By the numbers: Syrian refugees in the U.S.

 

 &middot;      Since October 2013, about 2,200 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the United States.

 

 &middot;      Half of these Syrian refugees are children - families driven from their homes by the savage war in Syria and ISIS's brutal rule.

 

 &middot;      A quarter of these refugees are adults over 60.

 

 &middot;      These 2,200 Syrian refugees have proven to be law-abiding residents of the United States.

 

 Syrian refugee screening process

 

 Today, Syrians and Iraqi refugees as well as refugees of all nationalities undergo the most rigorous and thorough screening and security vetting of any category of traveler or immigrant to the United States.

 

 In stark contrast to the situation in Europe, the U.S. screens all refugees for 18-24 months before they set foot on U.S. soil.

 

 The current screening process involves multiple intelligence, security, and law enforcement agencies, including the National Counterterrorism Center, the FBI, and the Departments of Homeland Security, State, and Defense, all aimed at ensuring that those admitted do not pose a threat to our country.

 

 The screening includes biometric (fingerprint) and biographic checks, medical screenings, and lengthy interviews.

 

 In addition, Syrian refugees go through additional levels of security screening, including a thorough pre-interview analysis of each individual refugee application.

  

 

 House Republican bill (H.R. 4038)

 

 The GOP bill would immediately shut down the resettlement of refugees from Syria and Iraq and severely handicap refugee settlement in the future.

 

 It requires the shutting down of the Syrian refugee program for years because it creates a whole new process - providing additional layers of bureaucratic review, while doing nothing to enhance Americans' security.

 

 For example, it creates a new &ldquo;certification&rdquo; requirement of a refugee being &ldquo;no threat,&rdquo; without definitions or specifications, and the entire process for each immigrant culminates in reports to 13 different congressional committees, creating a years-long delay as those requirements are defined and an interagency process is established.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

323 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Congressman John Garamendi's Statement on Syrian Refugee Bill

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP John Garamendi has issued the following news release:

  

 Today, Congressman John Garamendi (D-Fairfield, Davis, Yuba City), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted for HR4038, a bill to enhance the screening of refugees from the Middle East and improve American security. 


 

  &ldquo;This bill strengthens the already stringent requirements for international refugees entering America,&rdquo; said Congressman Garamendi. &ldquo;But strengthening the refugee program is just a part of the reassessment we must make in the wake of the Paris attacks. For those wishing to come to America to do harm, the refugee program is the least likely way to get in and the most likely way to get caught. Of the millions of displaced Syrians, only around 2,200 have been admitted to the United States as refugees, and for a good reason: applicants are vetted through biometric and biographic checks for at least 18 months by every major American national security and law enforcement agency before they even set foot on American soil. Anyone whose identity and story cannot be precisely confirmed is not admitted to our country. Once they gain admission to the United States, their status is periodically reviewed by state and federal law enforcement.

 

 &ldquo;America must remain the refuge of people who flee from terror, war, hunger and persecution. We should welcome those refugees from Syria and Iraq who seek safety and meet our security requirements. While I strongly support tighter screening requirements for refugee applicants, Congress should focus on much more likely ways for attackers to gain entry to our country. Every single attacker in Paris with a confirmed identity was a citizen of either France or Belgium--countries whose citizens don't even require a Visa to enter the United States because of our Visa waiver agreement with the European Union.

 

 &ldquo;We must be vigilant in every respect--refugees, students, and visitors, as well as homegrown terrorists. Remember that each of us has an important role to play. If we see something, we must say something to authorities.&rdquo;

 

 Of the roughly 2,200 refugees from Syria who have been admitted to the United States over the past 3 years, half of those are children, while a quarter are above the age of 60.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

324 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: My Vote on the Syrian Refugee Bill

LENGTH: 937 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP John Garamendi has issued the following news release:

  

 I support America's role in helping provide safe haven for the refugees from Syria and Iraq who are fleeing the murderous death cult we call ISIL, ISIS, or Da'esh and who have been properly vetted. I would never vote for a bill that I thought stopped our refugee programs. 


 

 My wife Patti and I have been involved in refugee relief for our entire lives in public service, starting as Returned Peace Corps Volunteers in Ethiopia in the 1960s. We were there during the 1984 Ethiopian famine, when many refugees successfully made it to Europe. We knew students and leaders jailed and sometimes massacred during the Ethiopian-Eritrean Civil War. We actively worked with the Lost Boys of Sudan, the young men orphaned by the brutal Second Sudanese Civil War, as they sought refugee status, including in Patti's role as the Deputy Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service at the USDA.

 

 The bill I voted for, H.R. 4038, by my reading (and I encourage everyone reading this to read the bill too), does the following:

 

     It requires the heads of the agencies responsible for vetting refugees - the Homeland Security Secretary, the FBI Director, and the Director of National Intelligence specifically - after the existing thorough (and unchanged) background checks are conducted, to certify that refugee applicants don't pose a threat to the United States before being granted refugee status.

     It requires a review and periodic reports on our refugee program to the appropriate Congressional committees.

 

 That's literally the entire bill. There's no talk of pausing or rejecting refugees, no matter how many headlines say otherwise.

 

 On the morning of the vote, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson spoke before the Democratic Caucus in the House of Representatives to make his case for why the Administration opposes this bill. Frankly, he faced widespread upheaval within the Caucus for his explanation. I thought his case was entirely unconvincing.

 

 The bill's biggest impact is in shifting the final signoff of refugees from mid-level civil positions within our intelligence and security bureaucracy to the cabinet itself. This is similar to certifications conducted on a wide array of other federal programs, including the export of military arms to certain countries, the outsourcing of functions that can be performed by the government, and the functioning and safety of our nuclear arsenal.

 

 Ultimately, the risk of a terrorist attack from a refugee is minimal. Refugees are the most thoroughly vetted population in America. For those wishing to come to America to do harm, the refugee program is the least likely way to get in and the most likely way to get caught. Of the millions of displaced Syrians, only around 2,200 have been admitted to the United States as refugees in the past five years, and for a good reason: applicants are vetted through biometric and biographic checks for at least 18 months with the input of every major American national security and law enforcement agency before they even set foot on American soil. Anyone whose identity and story cannot be precisely confirmed is not admitted to our country. Once they gain admission to the United States, their status is periodically reviewed by state and federal officials. Half of the American refugees displaced by ISIL and the Syrian Civil War are children and a quarter are over the age of 60.

 

 I think the unilateral focus on refugees is misplaced. Every single attacker in Paris with a confirmed identity was a citizen of either France or Belgium - countries whose citizens don't even require a visa to enter the United States because of our visa waiver agreement with the European Union. We must be vigilant in every respect - refugees, students, and visitors, as well as homegrown terrorists. Remember that each of us has an important role to play. If we see something, we must say something to authorities.

 

 That vigilance is important not just for our safety but for the foundational values that define America. If history is instructive, any successful terrorist strike will amp up pressures to crack down on perceived "others", ramp up xenophobia and bigotry, and engender support for policies that violate the constitutional rights of people in our country. Terrorist attacks here and abroad may cause us to reexamine our procedures, but we should never succumb to pressure to reexamine our values. We must not let the terrorists change who we are.

 

 We are in a climate where a majority of governors in America have said that refugees are not welcomed, even though they have no legal authority to restrict refugees in their states. Others have said we should only accept Christian refugees from Syria and Iraq, even though the bulk of those subjugated and brutalized by ISIL are innocent Muslims. There are leaders in this country invoking the Japanese internment favorably and calling for all Muslims to be put on federal registries. Times of fear and panic are dangerous.

 

 I saw this vote as an opportunity to assure the American public that we are thoroughly vetting refugees. In America, we know who our refugee populations are, and if bringing that knowledge up to the cabinet level in a more systemized way helps prevent overreactions that would stop future refugees altogether, so be it.

 

 I respect those who disagree with my vote, and I share their desire for our country to remain a shining beacon on the hill.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

326 of 999 DOCUMENTS


USA TODAY

November 24, 2015 Tuesday  
FIRST EDITION

Governors are worried about wrong refugees; 
Think about those with EU passports

BYLINE: Ross K. Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 484 words

Two dozen governors rejecting the resettlement of Syrian refugees in their states was an understandable reaction to the news that at least one of the Paris attackers evidently inserted himself in the refugee stream that entered Europe through Greece. 
Aside from the dubious constitutionality of what the governors propose, which conflicts with the exclusive federal jurisdiction over immigration policy, is the fact that potential attackers of the United States are already comfortably situated in Europe and are either holding passports that can get them through U.S. border checks or soon will.
Once asylum seekers in European Union countries achieve citizenship, they are eligible to secure a coveted passport from an EU member country, which exempts the holder from the requirement to obtain a visa. But even if we were to impose such a visa requirement, an EU passport would still be a surer ticket to legal entry into the USA than one from any other region of the world. This questions whether our imposition of stringent new controls on EU citizens would cause a serious deterioration of our trans-Atlantic relationships.
Paradoxically, a Syrian from a refugee camp in Lebanon or Jordan would be a less risky admission to the U.S. than a holder of a European passport from a country that has admitted tens of thousands of asylum seekers with little or no screening.
It is possible, in theory, to screen the 10,000 refugees that President Obama has proposed welcoming. It is time consuming, and immigrant advocates have complained about the prolonged wait. But a thorough vetting once completed would make a Syrian among the safest candidates for admission to this country.
By way of contrast, it is not really possible, even with the best technology, to vet the hundreds of thousands of refugees who have flocked and continue to flock to the countries of Western Europe.
There is a hidden assumption in the arguments of both the governors and the Republican presidential hopefuls that the 10,000 Syrians Obama wants to allow here are all Muslims. That is almost certainly not the case. Some of the earliest refugees were Christians or members of minority sects.
Furthermore, Syria is probably the most secular of the Muslim countries in the Middle East. And even if the majority are Muslim, the application of a religious test brings up bitter memories of the World War II immigration quotas that limited the admission of Jews suffering from Nazi persecution. The rejection by the United States of those fugitive Jews was, for many of them, tantamount to a death sentence.
If we face danger from a future terrorist attack on our country, it is likely to come not from the suburbs of Beirut but from the suburbs of Brussels.
Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University, is a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors and the author of Is Bipartisanship Dead? A Report From the Senate. 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

327 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 24, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Rep. Johnson backs call to block Syrian refugees in Ohio

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Bill Johnson has issued the following news release:

  

 Gov. John Kasich does not want Ohio or the United States to accept more Syrian refugees, a move supported by Congressman Bill Johnson. 


 

 Spokesman Jim Lynch says the Republican presidential candidate is writing to ask President Barack Obama to stop resettling Syrian refugees in Ohio because safety and security issues cannot adequately be addressed. Kasich also is reviewing steps Ohio might take to stop resettlement.

 

 Republican Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio issued a similar call Monday, saying he's concerned the government cannot fully check refugees' backgrounds.

 

 Kasich is among several governors moving to temporarily halt acceptance of Syrian refugees following Friday's deadly attacks in Paris, where one of the terrorists is suspected of having entered the country from Syria last month as part the refugee crisis in Europe.

 

 Immigrant rights groups argue that states don't have legal authority to block refugees from being resettled.

 

 U.S. Rep. Johnson, R-Marietta, said he supports Kasich's call for a moratorium, according to a news release he issued on Monday."As unanswered questions remain about the screening process used for Syrian refugees into the U.S., it is time for the State Department, as a bare minimum to halt bringing more refugees into the United State and Ohio. If our government can't properly certify that asylum seekers from Syria, or any country for that matter, don't present a safety or security threat, then they shouldn't be admitted to America," he said.

 

 Meanwhile, the Ohio House of Representatives adopted a resolution urging President Obama to halt the settlement of Syrian refugees in the state and nation. The vote in the Republican-dominated House was mostly along party lines.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

330 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

November 22, 2015 Sunday

Common sense and the refugee crisis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 447 words

Over the years, we've often admonished ourselves to avoid writing editorials that weave between a there's-this-pro and a but-then-there's-that-con approach that fails to take a strong point of view. 
Today, we're finding ourselves in danger of sounding like we're doing just that. When it comes to the Syrian refugee issue, we hold two positions that some might see as diametrically opposed.
But there is nothing timid about the points we feel the need to make:
We believe that a brief moratorium on processing refugees from Syria and Iraq is prudent.
We also believe that accepting refugees from these areas is not only humanitarian but essential to American interests.
These positions are not mutually exclusive, and we wish politicians, pundits and some members of the public would stop arguing the points reflexively based on emotion. Everyone, let's lower the volume and debate thoughtfully with a little common sense. In a foreboding message, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls said last week some of the terrorists involved in the Paris attacks "took advantage of the refugee crisis ... of the chaos, perhaps, for some of them to slip in."
The Telegraph of London went a step further and reported that Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the presumed ringleader, and at least two other terrorists used the migrant route to cross into Europe through Greece.
Let's allow that to sink in for a moment. The United States is not Europe, and in many respects our Homeland Security systems are far superior. But terrorists have vowed to attack again here too and in recent days have specifically announced plans to take aim at Washington D.C. and at Times Square in New York.
Does anyone doubt they might try to use the veil of refugee migration to reach our shores?
We don't believe America should turn its back on refugees who need our help.
But there is nothing inhumane about pausing to review and, if necessary, strengthen our nation's precautions, presuming we do so systematically with a clear end-date for the moratorium. In fact, it seems to be simple common sense to do so.
At the same time, let's redouble our commitment to the refugee program itself.
Welcoming well-vetted refugees not only is the humanitarian thing to do, it is the American thing to do.
If we are to win the war on terror, it will not be done with bullets and bombs alone. It will be done with the power of our ideals.
This is not a war of religions. Fundamentally, it is not even a war between ways of life.
It is a war between bigotry and acceptance. It is a war between hatred and love.
That is the message we send the terrorists and those they would recruit.
How do we send that message if we do not open our arms to those in peril?

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrants disembark from a small boat after their arrival from the Turkish coast on the northeastern Greek island of Lesbos earlier this month. (AP Photo/Santi Palacios)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

333 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

November 22, 2015 Sunday  
Suburban Edition

Obama: U.S. can be safe, offer haven to refugees

BYLINE: David Nakamura

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia - President Obama met with child refugees at a humanitarian center here Saturday as he sought to put a human face on his bitter fight with Republicans over the administration's handling of the Syrian refugee crisis. 
Obama knelt on the floor of the Dignity for Children Foundation and chatted with grade-school-age children as they worked on handicrafts. Speaking to reporters, the president said the youngsters were "indistinguishable from any child in America."
"The notion that somehow we would be fearful of them, that our politics would somehow leave them to turn our sights away from their plight, is not representative of the best of who we are," Obama said.
The president's visit to the center in Kuala Lumpur, where he is attending a pair of regional summits, was planned well in advance of the terrorist attacks in Paris and Mali over the past week. But it took on heightened political importance amid fierce debate between Obama and the GOP - and some Democrats - over whether the United States should accept thousands of Syrians who are fleeing their war-torn country.
Critics of the president have called on him to halt the flow of refugees into the country in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks in Paris. Authorities have said that militants might be taking advantage of the routes into Western Europe being used by hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers fleeing the war-tornMiddle East.
The House passed a bipartisan bill on a veto-proof majority that would significantly slow the influx by creating additional screening requirements, a measure the White House has threatened to veto. The fate of the bill in the Senate remains uncertain.
Obama, as he has twice before during his nine-day trip, rejected the notion that providing safe haven to refugees amounted to a security risk.
"We have shown that we can welcome refugees and ensure our security - that there's no contradiction," he said at the refugee center. The children he met with were a mix of refugees and migrants from Burma, Somalia and the Sudan, administration officials said.
"As long as I'm president," Obama continued, "we will keep on stepping up and ensure America remains, as it has always been, a place where people who in other parts of the world are subject to discrimination and violence have in America a friend and a place of refuge."
The president made his visit just hours after several Republican presidential candidates renewed their criticism of his refugee policies. At a forum sponsored by Family Leader in Des Moines on Friday night, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), who has called on the administration to admit only Christian refugees from Syria, while barring Muslims, called Obama's refugee policy "a disaster caused by the Obama/Clinton foreign policy."
david.nakamura@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request included other documents, they completed successfully.

337 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

November 20, 2015 Friday

Following the terrorists' script

BYLINE: BY NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 843 words

ABSTRACT
Our disgraceful response to Jews fleeing Germany during World War II risks being repeated with Syrian refugees. 

FULL TEXT
Desperate refugees flee persecution and war, but American politicians - worried about security risks - refuse to accept them.
That's the situation today, but it's also the shameful way we responded as Jews were fleeing Nazi Germany in the 1930s. In the shadow of one world war, on the eve of another, Americans feared that European Jews might be left-wing security threats.
''Jews are not Communists,'' Rabbi Louis I. Newman of Manhattan noted, pleadingly, in December 1938, trying to assuage the xenophobia. ''Judaism has nothing in common with Communism.'' 
Yet in January 1939, Americans polled said by a two-to-one majority said that the United States should not accept 10,000 mostly Jewish refugee children from Germany. That year, the United States turned away a ship, the St. Louis, with Jewish refugee children; the St. Louis returned to Europe, where some of its passengers were murdered by the Nazis.
That is a stain on our conscience that risks being repeated. Some 26 Republican governors are trying to block entry of Syrian refugees. All the Republican presidential candidates say that we should bar Syrian refugees or apply a religious test and accept only Christians.
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey says we shouldn't accept Syrians even if they are toddlers and orphans. And the House of Representatives may vote this week on legislation to impede the resettlement of Syrian refugees.
One Syrian family - a man who once ran a clothing store, his wife and their 4-year-old child - were supposed to arrive in Indiana this week. Then Gov. Mike Pence announced that Syrians were unwelcome, and the family is settling in Connecticut instead.
Remember what a Syrian immigrant looks like - the father of Steve Jobs.
Thank goodness that when my father came to America as a refugee from Eastern Europe in 1952, politicians weren't fearmongering. My dad sailed to New York, bought a copy of the Sunday New York Times to teach himself English, and took the train across the country to a welcoming Oregon.
When Indiana today shuns desperate refugees, it is shunning people like my family.
Yes, security is critical, but I've known people who have gone through the refugee vetting process, and it's a painstaking ordeal that lasts two years or more. It's incomparably more rigorous than other pathways to the United States.
If the Islamic State wanted to dispatch a terrorist to America, it wouldn't ask a mole to apply for refugee status, but rather to apply for a student visa to study at, say, Indiana University. Hey, governors, are you going to keep out foreign university students?
Or the Islamic State could simply send fighters who are French or Belgian citizens (like some of those behind the Paris attacks) to the U.S. as tourists, no visa required. Governors, are you planning to ban foreign tourists, too?
Refugee vetting has an excellent record. Of 785,000 refugees admitted to the United States since 9/11, just three have been arrested for terrorism-related charges, according to the Migration Policy Institute in Washington.
If Republican governors are concerned about security risks, maybe they should vet who can buy guns. People on terrorism watch lists are legally allowed to buy guns in the United States, and more than 2,000 have done so since 2004. The National Rifle Association has opposed legislation to rectify this.
Although Donald Trump fulminates about President Obama supposedly wanting to bring in 250,000 or more Syrian refugees, that's preposterous: Obama proposes admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees over a year. That's tiny, just 1 percent of the number that Lebanon has accepted.
The Islamic State is trying to create a religious divide and an anti-refugee backlash, so that Muslims will feel alienated and turn to extremism. If so, American and European politicians are following the Islamic State's script.
Let's be careful not to follow that script further and stigmatize all Muslims for ISIS terrorism. As   a young British Muslim man, Kash Ali, wrote in a post that went viral on Twitter: ''I don't understand why non-Muslims think we British Muslims can stop ISIS. Mate, I can't even get a text back from the girl I like, and you expect me to stop a terrorist organization?''
Look, accepting 10,000 refugees is not a solution. Indeed, there is a risk that Angela Merkel's admirable compassion will lead far larger numbers to undertake the difficult journey and die on the way. The top priority must be making Syria habitable so that refugees need not flee. This is where I believe President Obama has failed - Syria is his worst foreign policy failure - but it's good to see him push back at the hysteria about Syrian refugees.
Helping Syrian refugees today doesn't solve the Middle East mess any more than helping Jewish refugees in 1939 would have toppled Hitler. But it's the right thing to do. Syrians, no less than those Jewish refugees, no less than my father, are human beings needing help, not flotsam.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

343 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 20, 2015 Friday

Washington: Luetkemeyer Responds to Paris Terror Attacks and Syrian Refugees

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Blaine Luetkemeyer has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-03) issued the following statement after the Paris terror attacks and the Syrian refugees coming into the United States: 


 

 &ldquo;My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims of these heinous attacks and their families.  It was just a few days ago that President Obama stated that ISIS had been contained. The terrorist acts in Paris unequivocally disprove this. It is more imperative than ever that President Obama put together a real plan and an international coalition to take real action to destroy ISIS. We've also learned that at least one of the attackers entered Europe posing as a Syrian refugee. This makes the president's plan to allow ten thousand Syrian refugees into the United States all the more reckless. First and foremost, our borders need to be fully secured. We should also not allow anybody into our country who could pose a threat to America. That's why, today, I cosponsored legislation that would prohibit any refugee from entering the United States unless the government can certify and prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that that individual does not pose a threat to America. We must put the safety of our country and her people first.&rdquo;

 

 The legislation, the American SAFE Act, would require the FBI Director to certify background checks have been thoroughly administered for refugees entering from Syria and Iraq. It would also require the Secretary of Homeland Security, with the Director of the FBI and the Attorney General, to affirm that every refugee being admitted is not a security threat. Lastly, to ensure the vetting process works effectively, this legislation would require the Office of the Inspector General to conduct

 an audit.

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.coma

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

346 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

November 19, 2015 Thursday

Syrian refugees: U.S. officials struggle with fear vs. American values

BYLINE: By Josh Richman jrichman@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News; National; World; Local

LENGTH: 1072 words

As he listens to the debate over the Syrian refugee crisis, Shams Faryabi understands the plight of families desperate to flee the bloodshed of their war-torn country.
Ten years ago, he and his wife and two children arrived in the United States in search of a "peaceful happy life" several years after the Taliban brutally took over their native Afghanistan.
But Faryabi also understands that an immigrant wave could include people who mean to do America harm. "It's very hard to determine who is the bad and who is the good," he said. 
That tension could play out on Capitol Hill as early as Thursday. House Republicans are expected to vote on blocking the Obama administration's plan to bring in 10,000 more Syrian refugees.
The fear that danger lurks amid the huddled masses yearning to be free is a concern some harbored even before terrorists, possibly including one who posed as a Syrian refugee, murdered 129 people in Paris last Friday. But many Democrats are arguing that blocking the refugees from coming here would a betrayal of American values.
"Our commitment to refugees and the security of the American people are not mutually exclusive," said San Jose's Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, and two other key House Democrats in a joint statement Wednesday. "We believe that turning our backs on those escaping persecution, many of them religious minorities and victims of terrorism, runs counter to the proud and generous heritage of the United States -- a country of immigrants -- that has always helped those in need in the most trying times."
About 4.2 million Syrians have fled their country since civil war erupted in early 2011. Most are now in Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan, but more than 680,000 have sought asylum in Europe. Only 2,219 have been admitted to the United States as refugees, a State Department database shows.
Now, 26 Republican governors have said they would bar Syrian refugees from settling in their states; they lack authority to do so but could make it harder for refugees by withholding state funds. Four more governors -- including one Democrat, New Hampshire's Maggie Hassan -- are calling for increased screening and security.
At issue is the 18-to-24-month screening process refugees must pass before coming to America -- a process experts say is longer and more stringent than that facing millions of tourists and other non-immigrant visa holders who enter the country every year, assuming they even have visas at all.
"If ISIS wants to do harm to the U.S., putting someone into the refugee program is not the way to do it," said Niels Frenzen, professor and Immigration Clinic director at the University of Southern California's Gould School of Law.
Most of the Paris attackers were French or Belgian nationals and not on the radar of those countries or the United States as possible threats. That means they might have been able to come to America without a visa on only a few days' notice, with only automated background checks, through a "visa waiver program" that the United States has with about three dozen nations, Frenzen said.
But refugees of all nationalities undergo many months of intensive security screening involving federal intelligence, security and law enforcement agencies before being admitted to the United States, a senior Obama administration official told reporters on a conference call Tuesday.
"Mindful of the particular conditions of the Syria crisis, Syrian refugees go through additional forms of security screening," the official said. "And we continue to examine options for further enhancement for screening refugees, the details of which are classified. But the classified details are regularly shared with relevant congressional committees."
Another official said Syrian refugees get extra scrutiny from the Homeland Security Department's Fraud Detection and National Security unit, which checks each applicant against classified and unclassified records. Still, fear persists.
"It seems a bit ludicrous to think that terrorists who go to such extensive and meticulous planning to do harm to us would not take advantage of the refugee flow," said Ric Oberlink, spokesman for Santa Barbara-based Californians for Population Stabilization. With Syria in ruins, "we don't have intelligence on the ground" to verify refugees' stories, he said.
"Obviously there are humanitarian concerns," but it's best to keep most refugees as close as possible to the homelands they've fled, in hope they can return someday, Oberlink said.
Of the 2,219 Syrian refugees accepted by the United States since early 2011, 252 came to California, the State Department's database shows. Most went to San Diego or the Sacramento area, but 20 settled in the Bay Area -- 16 in Oakland, two in Los Gatos and one each in San Jose and Walnut Creek. That doesn't include people who come here on other visas and then request asylum, or those granted "special immigrant visas" after helping U.S. military personnel, said Nancy Ferguson, who runs the International Rescue Committee's Northern California operation in Oakland.
But, she said, they all have one thing in common: "They're here because they were in fear for their families' safety and their lives. Some of them have seen family members killed; some of them have seen their hometowns devastated."
America saw a backlash against refugees after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, even though none of the 19 terrorists had posed as refugees, said Amy Weiss, director of refugee and immigrant services at Jewish Family and Community Services in Walnut Creek. Weiss, whose agency helped Faryabi's family settle here, said aiding refugees is a valuable exercise in interfaith cooperation. For example, her Jewish agency has worked with a Catholic monastery to find shelter for Muslim refugees.
That's the America that Faryabi says made his family's long, difficult trek worthwhile, and it's why he now helps raise donations to aid other refugee families.
"Just helping the people -- it doesn't matter which religion they are, which country, which language they speak ... everyone should do this, everywhere," Faryabi said, because refugees simply want to get away from the violence that threatened them "and just be happy, take advantage of the life which is God's gift."
Josh Richman covers politics. Follow him at Twitter.com/Josh_Richman . Read the Political Blotter at IBAbuzz.com/politics .

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A woman carries a child as migrants and refugees walk near Gevgelija, after crossing the Greece-Macedonia border, on November 18, 2015. More than 800,000 refugees and migrants have landed in Europe so far this year and more than 3,000 have died while crossing the Mediterranean in search of a new life in the world's largest economy. AFP PHOTO / DIMITAR DILKOFFDIMITAR DILKOFF/AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

355 of 999 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

November 19, 2015 Thursday

Two NorCal Dems vote for Syrian refugee bill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 728 words

The House approved the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act affecting the process by which the United States accepts refugees fleeing from Syria on a veto-proof 289-137 vote Thursday   and two Northern California Democrats were among those voting for it.
All refugees undergo an 18-to-24-month screening process involving various federal intelligence, law enforcement and diplomatic agencies before being allowed to come to America; Syrian refugees are subject to extra intelligence checks, said Obama administration officials this week. 
But H.R. 4038 effectively would suspend admissions of Syrian and Iraqi refugees for now by obliging the heads of the FBI and Homeland Security Department and the director of national intelligence to certify to Congress that each refugee cis not a threat to the security of the United States.c
The entire Bay Area delegation opposed it, but among those voting for it were Rep. John Garamendi , D-Walnut Grove, and Rep. Ami Bera , D-Elk Grove.
From Garamendi:
cThis bill strengthens the already stringent requirements for international refugees entering America. But strengthening the refugee program is a minor part of the reassessment we must make in the wake of the Paris attacks. For those wishing to come to America to do harm, the refugee program is the least likely way to get in and the most likely way to get caught. Of the millions of displaced Syrians, only around 2,200 have been admitted to the United States as refugees, and for a good reason: applicants are vetted through biometric and biographic checks for at least 18 months by every major American national security and law enforcement agency before they even set foot on American soil. Anyone whose identity and story cannot be precisely confirmed is not admitted to our country. Once they gain admission to the United States, their status is periodically reviewed by state and federal law enforcement.
cAmerica must remain the refuge of people who flee from terror, war, hunger and persecution. We should welcome those refugees from Syria and Iraq who seek safety and meet our security requirements. While I strongly support tighter screening requirements for refugee applicants, Congress should focus on much more likely ways for attackers to gain entry to our country. Every single attacker in Paris with a confirmed identity was a citizen of either France or Belgium countries whose citizens donct even require a Visa to enter the United States because of our Visa waiver agreement with the European Union.
cWe must be vigilant in every respect refugees, students, and visitors, as well as homegrown terrorists. Remember that each of us has an important role to play. If we see something, we must say something to authorities.c
From Bera:
cIt is critical that our first priority is to keep America safe   that is why I voted today for a bill to ensure that all Syrian refugees are thoroughly vetted. However, we canct let the terrorists win and influence who we are as Americans. Our country has always been a place for those fleeing violence or oppression and we must stay true to those values. This additional screening step will ensure that we know those coming into the country are not a security threat.c
Rep. Sam Farr , D-Carmel, was among those who voted against the bill.
cThe strength of our nation is found in our willingness to help those most in need. Turning our back on those fleeing terror and destruction would mean turning our back on the values that make this country great. America can stay true to those values without compromising our security.
cWe already thoroughly vet anyone seeking refugee status. For most applications, it is a multi-year process that requires a stringent background check. If our security agencies cannot verify any detail of a refugeecs story, they are denied entrance. That is a higher level of security screening than we apply to immigrants and travelers visiting the United States.
cAfter the recent attacks in Paris, fear is an understandable emotion. However leadership requires us to not give into that fear. Syrian refugees fleeing their war torn country are not our enemy. They are grandparents, mothers, fathers and children who are only searching for safe haven for their family. As a humanitarian nation and the moral leader of the world, we have a responsibility to welcome them into our country.c

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

357 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 19, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Scalise Urges President To Immediately Pause Admission Of Syrian Refugees

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP  Steve Scalise has issued the following news release:

  

 Congressman Steve Scalise (R-La.) today sent President Barack Obama the following letter urging him to immediately pause the admission of Syrian refugees into Louisiana and the United States, and to provide state officials and their representatives in Congress with information on any refugees his Administration intends on resettling in their states, and on how federal officials are keeping track of these individuals. The letter reads as follows: 


 

 Dear Mr. President:

 

 For several months, America's law enforcement and intelligence communities--including the heads of the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Bureau of Investigation--have warned that they lack the ability to properly vet people seeking to enter our country as refugees from Syria. Meanwhile, reports indicate that at least one of the terrorists involved in the Paris attacks entered Europe and registered as a refugee.

 

 Despite these facts, you have doubled down on your plan to bring 10,000 more refugees from this region to America, including to my state of Louisiana. Mr. President, when ISIS terrorists say they want to exploit and infiltrate the refugee program to attack America, we ought to take that threat seriously. We must not allow that to happen. That is why I write on behalf of my constituents and the citizens of Louisiana to urge you to take the following steps:

 

 1. Immediately pause the admission of these refugees into the United States. We cannot continue to admit more refugees while your Administration is unable to verify that each individual admitted would not pose a security risk to our homeland. Louisianans and all Americans deserve that assurance.

 

 2. Provide state officials and their representatives in Congress with information on any refugees your Administration intends on resettling in their states, and on how federal officials are keeping track of these individuals. Currently, Homeland Security officials in the state of Louisiana say they have not received such information. It is inexcusable that impacted states should have to find out this information from media reports rather than from federal agencies.

 

 Mr. President, America and Louisiana have a proud tradition of providing humanitarian assistance. The need for such assistance in the Middle East is clear. But giving that assistance need not--and must not--come at the expense of America's national security. Our government already provides critical resources and humanitarian assistance to displaced Syrians in neighboring countries, such as Turkey and Jordan, where they are well positioned to retake their country.

 

 For many reasons, including the fact that you cannot fully assure Americans that terrorists are not abusing the refugee process to achieve their own deadly goals against the United States, I am calling on you to pause this program immediately.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

358 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 19, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Nolan Statement on the American SAFE Act

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the MP Rick Nolan has issued the following news release:

  

 U.S. Rep. Rick Nolan today released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of H.R. 4038, the bipartisan American SAFE Act of 2015: 


 

 &ldquo;Today I voted in favor of H.R. 4038, the bipartisan American SAFE Act of 2015, because we must leave no stone unturned to keep the American people safe and protect our borders from ISIS-trained terrorists. The recent terrorist attacks in Paris have Americans understandably concerned.  To be sure, we must be strong and unwavering in defending our country and protecting our people from the threat of terrorism. To that extent, we must constantly be examining our intelligence-gathering capabilities and making improvements wherever necessary. Everyone who enters the United States from another nation must be carefully screened, regardless of the time or the inconvenience involved.

 

 That said, it is important to remember that we have a long and proud history of taking in refugees from all around the globe. Legal immigration is a core founding value of our great nation. No terrorist's hate can overcome the strength of our values. After all, these refugees are fleeing to escape regions where they are entrapped by the very same violence that tragically reached the streets of Paris and other cities around the world.

 

 After carefully examining this legislation and the debate around it, it's clear that this legislation will not preclude the United States from accepting thoroughly-vetted refugees into the country. Refugees coming into the United States are more heavily screened and vetted than any other group. Out of 23,000 Syrian applicants, only 7,000 have been accepted for an interview by the Department of Homeland Security since 2011, and only 2,000 of them have been admitted. No Syrian refugee that has resettled in the United States has been arrested or removed on terrorism charges.

 

 Refugees must undergo extremely thorough background checks, interviews, fingerprints, and other intensive security protocols prior to even stepping foot in the United States. This process takes an average of a year and a half to two years before a refugee can actually arrive in America. The Department of Homeland Security works in concert with the Department of State, the Department of Defense, the National Counterterrorism Center and the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center for the screening and vetting of refugees. Today's legislation is simple and does not significantly change our current process, but rather, just requires the three Secretaries of these Departments to now certify this process.

 

 In Europe, refugees are simply fingerprinted upon arrival and sent on their way without these scrupulous checks. It is impossible to compare refugees arriving in Europe with refugees arriving in the United States.

 

 We must remain both vigilant and compassionate. As Pope Francis said to Congress, we must respond to the ongoing refugee crisis "in a way which is always humane, just and fraternal. We need to avoid a common temptation nowadays: to discard whatever proves troublesome. Let us remember the Golden Rule: Do unto others as you would have them do unto you."&rdquo;

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

365 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

November 18, 2015 Wednesday

Europe's Refugee Problem, and Ours

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1578 words


HIGHLIGHT: Why the continent risks much more when it accepts refugees than we do. 

There are two ways to think about the potential dangers involved in admitting large numbers of refugees from the Middle East's present chaos into Western countries, and both of them have rather different implications for Europe than for the United States.
The first danger is straightforward: The more refugees you admit, the higher the odds that (and the greater the ease with which) a terrorist organization like the soi-disant caliphate can exploit the process to move its personnel through Western territory. That appears to have happened with the Parisian massacres; at least one of the killers seems to have passed from the Levant to the West using a forged Syrian passport, which are commonplace among the (many) non-Syrians entering Europe at the moment. The operation presumably would have happened without him, and the boasts of ISIS about the gunmen they claim to have seeded throughout Europe are probably (hopefully?) not to be believed. But there's no doubt that a wave of refugees provides a sea in which would-be terrorists can find it somewhat easier to swim. 
The second danger is one for the longer term, and it's tackled effectively by Reihan Salam over at Slate. "Given the manifest failure of France, Belgium, and Germany to successfully integrate native-born Muslims into the cultural and economic mainstream of their societies," he asks, "despite decades of fitful efforts to that end, what reason do we have to believe that these governments will succeed in 2015?" (Especially since the failures of assimilation to date have occurred with populations that arrived gradually rather than suddenly, in eras of stronger economic growth and political optimism, etc. etc.)
And if they fail - when they fail, really, let's be honest - then Europe will end up with more Saint-Denises, more Malmös, more Molenbeeks, and many more young men primed for anti-Semitic rabblerousing or recruitment to jihad. Today's refugee flows are potentially linked to tomorrow's terrorism, in other words, in the same way that the economic migrations of the 1970s and 1980s are linked to Euro-Islamism today. And European policymakers have a responsibility to consider that experience and imagine not only the threat spectrum of 2016, but what that spectrum might look like in 2025 and 2035 as well.
As the way I've written the above should suggest, however, both of these dangers are much more clear and present for Europe than for the United States. The first problem, of easy terrorist movement, is worse on the continent not only because of Europe's sheer proximity to the Middle East, but also because of the way the continent's Schengen Area works: If your passport (forged or real) gets you into one Schengen country, then you can enter all the rest (well, or at least until recently you could) without facing any kind of border check at all. That effectively means that Greece and Italy and Spain are doing the work of border control and refugee screening for France and Germany and Sweden, which is rather like if New Mexico, Mississippi and Alabama bore the primary responsibility for screening refugees to the reset of the U.S.A., with only ad hoc support from the federal government.
But fortunately that isn't how border security works in the United States: Here it's centralized and federalized, as is refugee resettlement, and while it's obviously subject to various forms of incompetence it isn't in the hands of local officials whose incentives (and cultures and languages and bureaucratic effectiveness) differ radically from the governments of their wealthier neighbors, as it presently is in Europe. Also, almost all our refugees arrive by plane, and we have the Atlantic Ocean to do pre-screening for us; boats full of Syrian (or "Syrian") migrants are not regularly washing up on the Outer Banks or Nantucket. So we should, by all rights, be able to do a better - not perfect, but better - job of screening a refugee population than does the as-currently-constituted Eurozone.
And then the U.S. also has a far better track record than Europe when it comes to assimilating Muslim immigrants and preventing extremism from taking root. Not always - we have our Tsarnaev brothers, after all - and some of our success is a selection effect: America's Muslim-immigrant population has always included more middle-class asylum-seekers than poorer economic migrants. But so long as we maintain an asylum process, it should be possible for today's Syrian and Iraqi refugees to be screened and selected for as well, and there's no reason to think that 10,000 or 25,000 or 50,000 new arrivals, seeded into well-educated diaspora populations across a nation of 300 million, are going to suddenly recreate the Paris banlieues in Louisiana or New Jersey.
So even without getting into the question of moral responsibility - where I think you can make a case (and I've tried to make one) that the U.S. bears more responsibility for the miserable fate of people in the broad zone of our Iraq intervention than do the nations of "Old Europe" that opposed that intervention in the first place - it seems like the American governors currently trying to keep refugees out of their states, and the Republican politicians making hay over the issue, are essentially confusing the American situation for the European one, and applying a threat assessment that would be more appropriate if they were running French departments or campaigning for Angela Merkel's job.
To be clear, I think questioning exactly how we're handling refugee policy is reasonable: After the weekend's horror in Paris and ISIS's threats again our capital, it's understandable to want clarity about the vetting process for refugees, and given the particulars of ISIS's depredations it's also understandable to urge the Obama administration to prioritize religious minorities (Christian, Yazidi, Shi'ite) in its resettlement policy. (Especially since at present the White House is rather strangely planning to designate only Yazidi, and not Iraqi and Syrian Christians, as victims of the Islamic State's genocidal push, a move that makes Obama's lectures about how we don't discriminate on the basis of religion in refugee policy a little bit difficult to take.)
But unless the United States is planning to never take asylum seekers from the Middle East again - which I know may be the official Trump position at the next debate - it's hard to see a good case for a sustained moratorium on admitting any refugees from a regional nightmare that our own policies, across two administrations, have helped create and worsen. As Ben Wittes notes, if we think we shouldn't take any refugees because we can't feel one hundred percent secure about the vetting process, then we should probably stop issuing student visas and tourist visas to Middle Easterners (and not only them) as well. But if we think, as we should think, that perfect security is a fantasy, then the differences between our position and Europe's seem sufficient to make a moral and prudential case for going ahead with the refugee numbers that Obama White House has mind, or even the higher numbers (50,000? 60,000?) floated by the Democratic candidates; the likely risks are simply not high enough to justify a halt.
But with all of that said ... even those higher, Martin O'Malley-favored numbers would account for only a tiny fraction of the people displaced by Syria's crisis, and there's no world (nor should there be) in which the U.S. is going to imitate Angela Merkel and open the door to a million refugees tomorrow. So for the millions of Syrians and Iraqis who aren't coming here no matter what, what we're debating right now is really more about American feelings (our sense of security versus our sense of righteousness) than it is about macro-level solutions to their crisis.
What that macro-level solution might be I don't pretend to know. But as Salam suggests, it probably has to involve helping refugees where they are at the moment (in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey), rather than encouraging the idea that the only truly moral solution involves assimilating them all, through some wholly imaginary means, into a Europe that's roiled by completely-understandable fears about its own near-term security and long-term political and cultural fate. Salam's piece touts the proposal from Alexander Betts and Paul Collier to create special economic zones for refugees in the countries where they're most likely to remain, and while that may be a little fanciful it has the basic idea right: There will be a Middle Eastern solution to the refugee crisis or there will be no solution at all.
At some point that solution will hopefully involve a more stable Syria and an extinct Islamic State. But until that day comes, the most morally pressing issue is how exactly we help people "over there" who can't go home as yet. For concerned citizens in the West, that means doing our part to aid humanitarian efforts; for governments in the West it means figuring out what they can do (and what they can persuade Middle Eastern governments to do) to help make sure that the refugee camps aid organizations have set up don't turn into versions of the Gaza Strip.
For reasons of prudence, millions of Syrians (and Iraqis, and Libyans, and ...) shouldn't end up in Greece and Hungary and Germany. For reasons of prudence and logistics and democratic politics, they won't end up in America. So they need to be helped, and soon, close to where they are right now.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

368 of 999 DOCUMENTS


US Official News

November 18, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: ISLAMIC EXTREMISM ATTACK -- (House of Representatives - November 17, 2015)

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: Lahore


 Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following house proceeding:

  

    The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Yoder) for 5 minutes. 


 

    Mr. YODER. Mr. Speaker, America and her allies are under attack by Islamic extremism. The despicable act of terrorism the world witnessed over the weekend in Paris, France, serves as a stark reminder that the threat posed by ISIS knows no borders.

 

    French officials have indicated that at least one of the Paris attackers linked to ISIS was admitted into Europe as a refugee from Syria. Nevertheless, the administration has made it clear that, in spite of this, it will continue to seek to bring up to 10,000 Syrian refugees to America in the coming year.

 

    The President's refugee proposal places the interests of other nations ahead of the safety and security of the American people. Because we are unable to verify whether the next

 

 [Page: H8250]  GPO's PDF

 

 attacker is within their midst, we must halt the flow of any refugees into the United States from Syria.

 

    Mr. Speaker, in light of these attacks, now is not the time to open our borders to refugees from countries who wish to do our citizens harm. Congress stands ready to legislate or use the power of the purse should this administration refuse to change course on this misguided policy.

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com  

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

369 of 999 DOCUMENTS


US Official News

November 18, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: VIDEO: Rep. Yoder Calls on President to Halt Flow of Syrian Refugees into America

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: Lahore


 Washington: Office of the MP Kevin Yoder has issued the following news release:

  

 On Friday evening, attackers linked to ISIS conducted coordinated attacks in six locations across Paris, France. More than 130 people were killed, and another 352 are hospitalized with injuries. French officials have indicated at least one of the Paris attackers was admitted into Europe as a refugee from Syria. Nevertheless, the Obama Administration has made it clear it will continue to seek to bring up to 10,000 Syrian refugees to America in the coming year. 


 

 In response, Representative Kevin Yoder (R-KS) wrote a letter to President Obama yesterday and gave a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning demanding he reject refugees from Syria or any other nation with ties to ISIS from entering the United States. Citing the safety concerns, Representative Yoder said in the letter and speech:

 

 &ldquo;This proposal places the interest of other nations ahead of the safety and security of the American people. In light of these attacks now is not the time to open our borders to refugees from countries who wish to do our citizens harm.&rdquo;

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

370 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 18, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Homeland Security Committee Releases Report on Syrian Refugee Flow

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington, DC: U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security has issued the following press release:

  

 The House Committee on Homeland Security released a Majority Staff Report today presenting the preliminary findings of a nearly year-long investigation into the counterterrorism challenges associated with Syrian refugee flows to the United States and into Europe. The report, &ldquo;Syrian Refugee Flows: Security Risks and Counterterrorism Challenges,&rdquo; makes important findings about the crisis and presents seven recommendations for enhancing U.S. and international security. 


 

 &ldquo;As part of a nearly year-long review, I recently dispatched a team overseas to determine whether refugee flows might be exploited by ISIS to conduct attacks in the West. They were in Europe as the Paris attacks unfolded,&rdquo; said Chairman McCaul. &ldquo;Sadly, our fears appeared to be confirmed with the news that at least one of these terrorists may have infiltrated Europe posing as a Syrian refugee, and there are signs that there may be more. Now we face a grave challenge alongside our allies in Europe-to ensure we protect our people against emerging threats while living up to our humanitarian obligations. My team has found alarming gaps in the vetting of Syrian refugees at home and abroad, and in this high threat environment, we must take urgent action to keep Islamist terrorists from infiltrating their ranks.&rdquo;

 

 Acting on the preliminary findings of this review, Chairman McCaul this week introduced H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, which would put in place the most robust national-security vetting process in history to ensure terrorist do not exploit our humanitarian programs to enter the United States.

 

 In September, the Committee also released the Final Report of the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, which outlined serious security weaknesses in the United States and overseas which have allowed terrorists and foreign fighters to cross borders. Today's Majority Staff Report urges that the recommendations of the Task Force be implemented immediately by the President to close gaps in America's defenses.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

372 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

November 17, 2015 Tuesday  
Late Edition - Final

After Paris Attacks, Vilifying Refugees

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 597 words

Battening down the hatches is often an impulsive and politically expedient response to terrorism attacks. Predictably, the harrowing scenes of carnage in Paris on Friday are fueling calls to shut down borders and halt the resettlement of Syrian refugees in Western nations.
Senator Marco Rubio, a leading Republican presidential candidate, said the United States should stop taking in Syrian refugees. Jeb Bush, another Republican candidate, suggested, idiotically, that it might be O.K. to admit only Christians. Several governors announced that their states would not accept Syrian refugees. Republicans on Capitol Hill are expected this week to push for legislation that would block President Obama's initiative to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees next year.  
  In Europe, officials from Poland's new conservative government used the attacks as a pretext to reject the European Union's plan to distribute refugees more equitably among member states. Even before the attacks, several governments in Europe were taking steps to tighten borders and divert the flow of refugees elsewhere.
  These responses are wrong. Confusing refugees with terrorists is morally unacceptable and, as a matter of strategy, misguided. Stemming the exodus of refugees from Syria must be an important part of any comprehensive plan to end the Syrian war. Building new barriers to keep them out with the absurd argument that Muslims are inherently dangerous could provide propaganda benefits to the Islamic State. The group, also known as ISIS, has drawn recruits around the globe by offering a cause and a home to Muslims who feel marginalized and scorned.
  Mr. Obama hit just the right note at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Antalya, Turkey, on Monday. ''Many of these refugees are the victims of terrorism themselves, that's what they're fleeing,'' he said. ''Slamming the door in their faces would be a betrayal of our values. Our nations can welcome refugees who are desperately seeking safety and ensure our own security. We can and must do both.''
  He said that Syria's neighbors Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, which have absorbed the bulk of Syrian refugees in recent years, deserve more help. The Obama administration has offered to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees during the 2016 fiscal year, which would represent a modest, but important, move to aid the hundreds of thousands who have fled the war.
  The international community's obligation to protect civilians fleeing war and persecution is enshrined in human rights law and principles that the United States and European nations have championed over the past century. The Syrian war has sorely tested those commitments, but world leaders should not allow the conflict to render them moot. President Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission was right when he said on Sunday that the Paris attacks should not be used as a reason to revise the European Union's entire refugee policy.
  Surely America can offer a smarter and more generous response than Mr. Rubio's fearmongering. In a televised interview over the weekend, he warned, darkly, that ''you can have 1,000 people come in and 999 of them are just poor people fleeing oppression and violence, but one of them is an ISIS fighter.'' That's nonsense. America last year admitted 1,682 Syrian refugees -- an embarrassingly small number for the largest refugee crisis since World War II.
  Resettling Syrian refugees will take years and entail significant costs. But the prosperous nations of the world must share the burden of doing so and resist the temptation to simply say, No, not here.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/17/opinion/after-paris-attacks-vilifying-refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SELMAN DESIGN)       

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

375 of 999 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

November 17, 2015 Tuesday

Mercury News editorial:

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 460 words

The Islamic State's carnage in Paris throws down a new gauntlet. It presents a heightened challenge to the free world's ability to protect its people -- and to America's character as a nation, as governors and presidential candidates cravenly seize the moment to oppose accepting Syrian refugees. 
Militarily, President Obama's declaration that our ISIS strategy will be the same only more so is unlikely to last. We need to develop real partnerships with nations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa that have suffered attacks by ISIS. Surely France isn't the only one ready to take the threat seriously and fully share responsibility for eliminating it.
The threat to our nation's integrity and core values is a different matter, however. We need to own that.
Before the Paris attack, Obama agreed to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the United States -- a modest number that would fill about half the seats in San Jose's arena. Still, Republican presidential candidates objected, and now Republican governors are clamoring to declare they will not accept refugees in their states.
At least two presidential candidates, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush, have suggested we might help Christians but not Muslim families. Many of the 250,000 men, women and children who have died in Syria's war have been Muslim.
Fortunately, intelligent and conscientious voices also are rising -- including that of the vice chair of California's Republican Party, Harmeet Dillon. She wrote on Facebook: "Let's be careful, and smart, and vigilant, but not lose our humanity, and not turn on our fellow human beings with hateful rhetoric by judging them guilty just because of where they came from seeking peace and safety."
Amen to that. Fortunately, California's Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, Sen. Dianne Feinstein and other state leaders feel the same. California will continue to accept refugees who have been thoroughly vetted.
In Europe -- particularly Germany -- a tradition of welcoming refugees has led to a flood of them. One of the Paris attackers may have entered with them, and it's legitimate to wonder whether others might slip in among those fleeing rather than making war.
But in the United States, here's the thing the anti-refugee grandstanders either don't know or choose to ignore: Syrian refugees already are carefully screened before they enter this country and again when they arrive here.
It can take two years to pass all the litmus tests, including biometric-based investigations and background checks ranging from work history to terrorist databases. About 70 percent of the 1,800 refugees admitted since the war began have been women and children.
One litmus test they have not had to pass is religion. To remain a nation worth fighting for, America needs to keep it that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

376 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

November 17, 2015 Tuesday  
4 State / Suncoast Edition

RETHINKING FIGHT ON TERROR

SECTION: NATIONAL; TIMES EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 640 words

The terrorist attacks in Paris require a re-examination of U.S. strategy in combating the Islamic State abroad and protecting our security at home. That should result in better coordination with our allies and some of our adversaries such as Russia. It should steer additional resources toward gathering intelligence on suspected terrorists and securing our borders. But it will be equally important to resist a military response based on outrage rather than facts, avoid the temptation to embrace isolationism, and call out ugly attempts to demonize all Muslims.
ISIS has extended its brutal reach and spread fear beyond Iraq and Syria by taking responsibility for the Paris attacks, bombings in Beirut and the downing of a Russian airliner. On Monday, the terrorists named Washington as their next target. But Americans cannot give in to the temptation to respond recklessly with an unfocused military escalation that could serve as a recruitment tool for the terrorists who encourage and exploit hatred of the West. President Barack Obama was right Monday to continue to rule out a broad use of ground troops and to resist bellicose calls by some Republicans to wage a conventional war in an era of terrorist cells. 
Even before Friday's massacre, the United States was stepping up its efforts against ISIS, increasing surveillance missions in Libya and staging an airstrike against the leader of the Islamic State in Libya. After the horrific attacks in Paris, the United States helped one of its oldest allies respond by providing intelligence to help the French bomb Islamic State targets in northern Syria. Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet with French President Francois Hollande within the next few days to discuss a coordinated approach, which should be helpful since Russia has been more interested in propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad than rooting out ISIS. These are the sorts of targeted strikes and coordinated efforts that are necessary to stamp out this vicious terrorist organization.
At home, the United States should step up its intelligence efforts. As the investigation plays out in Europe, it appears the attackers included home-grown French extremists and three brothers living in Belgium. Evidence also suggests one Syrian national may have made it into Europe by blending in with thousands of refugees. That does not mean that the refugees fleeing their war-torn country all should be considered potential terrorists. Yet Gov. Rick Scott joined more than 20 other governors Monday in declaring their states do not want to accept more Syrian refugees. That is exactly the approach that fuels anti-West rhetoric abroad, fails U.S. allies in Europe that are coping with far more refugees than the 10,000 additional refugees Obama has pledged to accept, and encourages discrimination and threats against Muslims at home. Closing American borders to Syrians, as Sen. Marco Rubio and other Republican presidential candidates propose, is not the answer to a worldwide humanitarian crisis. Former Gov. Jeb Bush's suggestion that the United States help only Christian refugees is offensive and at odds with this nation's commitment to religious freedom.
The ISIS attack on Paris, following the bombings in Beirut and the downing of the Russian airliner, indicates the terrorists are broadening their targets and becoming more sophisticated. But answering with unfocused military responses in the Middle East, closed borders at home and anti-Muslim rhetoric would play into the hands of the terrorists. They do not make America safer. The more complicated way forward is a broader international effort to bring a diplomatic end to the war in Syria, targeted strikes to root out the terrorists abroad, and more coordinated intelligence efforts to better disrupt terrorist plots before they are carried out.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

377 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

November 17, 2015 Tuesday  
Politifact.com Edition

OBAMA: U.S. IS LARGEST DONOR FOR DISPLACED PERSONS, REFUGEE RELIEF

BYLINE: JON GREENBERG

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 1403 words

"The United States (is) the largest provider of humanitarian assistance to displaced persons and refugees."
- Barack Obama on Sunday, November 15th, 2015 in a joint statement with the president of Turkey.
* * *
THE RULING: MOSTLY TRUE
With nearly two dozen U.S. states now saying they won't resettle Syrian refugees, President Barack Obama took a moment during the G20 meeting to acknowledge the pressures faced by other countries at the gathering. 
"The United States, as the largest provider of humanitarian assistance to displaced persons and refugees, stands shoulder-to-shoulder with Turkey, Europe, and others in trying to help those who need help right now, even as we hope to reduce the flow of migrants because of the situation inside of Syria," Obama said.
We wanted to know if America in fact is the largest provider of aid for displaced people and refugees. If we simply look at the dollars spent on international assistance, the numbers largely back up Obama. (We asked the White House for comment but didn't hear back.) But the dollars don't tell the whole story. Any country that houses refugees incurs costs apart from its support for international aid agencies.
The dollars
Development Initiatives is a British organization focused on gathering data to help reduce global poverty. It reports that in 2012, the United States provided more humanitarian aid than any other nation. The U.S. government spent $3.8 billion, representing nearly a third of all aid from donor countries. The second highest donor was not a single country but agencies of the European Union with about $1.8 billion in humanitarian aid.
From the Development Initiatives report, here are the top 10 donors in 2012:
Donor.............................................Amount..................................Share of total
United States...................................$3.8 billion..............................29.4%
EU..................................................$1.88 billion............................14.5%
United Kingdom...............................$1.16 billion.............................9.0%
Turkey............................................$1.03 billion............................8.0%
Sweden...........................................$784 million............................6.1%
Germany.........................................$757 million............................5.9%
Japan..............................................$606 million............................4.7%
Canada...........................................$512 million............................4.0%
Norway............................................$509 million...........................3.9%
Australia..........................................$442 million............................3.4%
The United States ranks first, but it also represents the largest economy. As a percentage of Gross National Income (the research center's economic yardstick), Luxembourg and Sweden are the top donors giving 0.16 percent and 0.14 percent respectively. This table shows the line-up, again using Development Initiative data:
Donor............................................Share of GNI
Luxembourg...................................0.16%
Sweden..........................................0.14%
Turkey...........................................0.13%
Norway..........................................0.10%
Denmark........................................0.09%
Ireland...........................................0.08%
Finland...........................................0.07%
UK.................................................0.05%
Netherlands....................................0.05%
Switzerland.....................................0.05%
Belgium..........................................0.04%
Canada...........................................0.03%
Australia..........................................0.03%
New Zealand....................................0.03%
United States....................................0.02%
We should note that these donations go toward problems that range beyond refugees and people displaced by conflict. This humanitarian aid also provides food when people are starving and shelter when a flood or other disaster drives them from their homes.
To get a slightly different angle, we looked at the donors to the UN High Commission on Refugees. That's the UN lead agency for refugee assistance. Again, the United States comes out on top with $792 million given in 2012. The next highest was Japan.
Susan Fratzke is a policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute, a research center in New York City. Fratzke said the donor numbers only take you so far.
"Not all the refugee aid goes to the UNHCR," Fratzke said. "Some governments also give to big nonprofits, like the International Rescue Committee."
But Fratzke said specific to Syria, America has been the largest donor to help people fleeing that conflict. She said she's comfortable that all told, the United States most likely is the largest donor across the board.
Hosting refugees
There's another way to look at providing aid, though, and that's by looking at how many displaced persons are residing in a country.
According to the UNHCR, in 2014 no country dealt with more refugees than Turkey. More than 1.5 million Syrians fled their war-torn country to find safety in Turkey. Not only is Turkey the fourth largest donor of humanitarian aid, it shelters the greatest number of refugees within its borders. Data from UNHCR produces this table:
Country...............................................Refugees
Turkey................................................1,587,345
Pakistan..............................................1,505,516
Lebanon..............................................1,154,024
Iran (Islamic Rep. of)...........................982,025
Ethiopia...............................................659,510
Jordan.................................................654,116
Kenya..................................................551,336
Chad...................................................452,877
Uganda................................................385,498
China...................................................301,047
Afghanistan...........................................300,421
Sudan...................................................277,818
Iraq......................................................271,137
United States.........................................267,174
Cameroon.............................................264,102
Yemen..................................................257,632
France..................................................252,228
South Sudan.........................................248,152
Egypt...................................................236,050
Russian Federation................................235,717
It is difficult to put a dollar value on such efforts, but the hosting of refugees represents another form of providing assistance.
Our ruling
Obama said that the United States is the largest provider of humanitarian assistance to displaced persons and refugees. We found that America gives more humanitarian aid than any other country, and it ranks first in supporting the UN's lead agency in helping refugees. While the numbers are a bit inexact, an expert we reached said all the numbers point toward the United States being the top donor. While other countries give more relative to the size of their economy, the total volume of dollars matters most in terms of being able to provide more food, shelter and medical care.
However, countries that host refugees also provide humanitarian assistance in ways that are not so easily tallied. Those efforts should factor into an assessment of each nation's level of aid.
Obama was likely thinking in terms of financial support and in that regard, his statement holds water. But it's important to acknowledge that other forms of assistance matter.
The statement is largely correct but it requires a bit more information. We rate it Mostly True.
* * *
About this statement:
Published: Tuesday, November 17th, 2015 at 5:09 p.m.
Researched by: Jon Greenberg
Edited by: Angie Drobnic Holan
Subjects: Foreign Policy, Terrorism
Sources: White House Press Office, Remarks by President Obama and President Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey after Bilateral Meeting, Nov. 15, 2015; Development Initiatives, Global Humanitarian Assistance Report, 2013; UNHCR, Total contributions to UNHCR in 2012, 2013; Interview, Susan Fratzke, policy analyst, Migration Policy Institute, Nov. 16, 2015

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) PHOTO - Getty Images: President Barack Obama speaks to the media during his closing press conference on day two of the G20 Turkey Leaders Summit on Nov. 16, 2015, in Antalya, Turkey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request included other documents, they completed successfully.

380 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

November 17, 2015 Tuesday  
Regional Edition

Refugee hysteria

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 521 words

IN THE face of the horror in Paris - not to mention  Beirut and Baghdad - an instinctual reaction is to attempt to close the United States to the world and, in effect, ignore the plight of people America might help. At best, this reaction is understandable but self-defeating. From the mouths of Republican presidential candidates, it has become downright ugly. 
The Post's Jenna Johnson reports: "Former Florida governor Jeb Bush said Sunday that the United States should focus on 'Christians that are being slaughtered.' Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas said the country could continue to provide a 'safe haven' for Christians but not 'refugees that may have been infiltrated by ISIS.' Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal called for sealing off U.S. borders."
At least 13  other governors - a majority of them Republican - have said they will close their states to Syrian refugees.
These arguments have some superficial appeal. One of the Paris bombers appears to have entered Europe through Greece, the same route that thousands of desperate refugees have taken to escape Syria's brutal civil war. If a terrorist can take advantage of Europe's willingness to accept refugees, isn't the U.S. refugee program a serious security threat?
In fact, no. Europe is awash in Syrian refugees, its officials overwhelmed by the volume of people, nearly all of whom are simply seeking to survive. Germany alone may take 1 million people by the end of the year. 
The United States, by contrast, is hardly more than a bit player in the refugee crisis, in part because it insists on an orderly and lengthy vetting process. The United Nations screens and then refers refugees to U.S. authorities, who work with Department of Homeland Security and intelligence officials to perform background checks and conduct interviews. Performing background checks on people coming from a failed state can be hard, but the program is set up to bring in the most vulnerable - the sick, the maimed, women, children and the elderly. Every step in the screening process reduces the risk. 
So far, this vetting process has admitted fewer than 2,000 Syrian refugees into the country. President Obama's plan is to take a mere 10,000 more next year. International humanitarian advocates scratch their heads over the backlash against taking even this small number. "There are many ways to come to the United States," the International Rescue Committee's David Miliband wrote in an op-ed. "Comparatively the refugee resettlement program is the most difficult short of swimming the Atlantic."
Accepting only Christians would damage the country's reputation and betray the notion that Americans are bound by common allegiance to laws, not creeds. These impacts would far outweigh the meager security benefits such an approach would provide. 
The Paris attacks have shaken up the discussion on Syria. But the moral calculus regarding refugees who have been driven from their homes, beaten, tortured, gassed and raped hasn't changed. The humanitarian necessity is overwhelming. Half of all Syrians have been displaced, and more than a quarter-million people have died. There is no excuse to sit by.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

382 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 13, 2015 Friday

Human Rights First Launches Veterans for American Ideals

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 Human Rights First today launched an initiative called Veterans for American Ideals, a new group focused on raising the voices of veterans to continue their service by challenging America to live up to its ideals. The Veteran's Day launch reflects the organization's long history of working with military leaders to advocate policies that adhere to American ideals and enhance national security. 


 

 &ldquo;For 20 years I had the honor of serving as a United States Marine.  I spent a significant portion of my career deployed, from Iraq to Afghanistan to the Far East.  I still can't conceive of a more honorable way to spend those years,&rdquo; said Human Rights First's Scott Cooper. &ldquo;Veterans possess a unique and important voice in our nation--as ones who served the nation, swore to protect and defend the Constitution, and are exemplars and champions of its ideals.&rdquo;

 

 Veterans for American Ideals is a nonpartisan group of veterans who share a belief that America is strongest and most secure when its policies and actions match its ideals. The group will focus on working with people across the aisle to drive consensus on issues from torture to ensuring that those fleeing persecution can find refuge.

 

 As its first advocacy objective, the group is calling on the U.S. government to vastly improve the pace--and scale--of refugee resettlement, including the Iraq and Afghan interpreters, translators, and others who served alongside our troops, and those countries to those fleeing the conflict in Syria. Resolving the refugee crisis would strengthen U.S. National security by promoting lasting stability of key U.S. allies in the Middle East and Europe, which are currently overburdened by the challenge of hosting millions of Syrian refugees. Members of the group have urged President Obama to lead a global effort to protect Syrian refugees in order to &ldquo;uphold our legacy as a beacon of hope and freedom.&rdquo;

 

 &ldquo;U.S. action on the Syrian refugee crisis is a crucial piece of protecting those fleeing violence and persecution,&rdquo; said Cooper. &ldquo;The United States has a history of showing leadership during times of global crisis, and we intend to encourage our leaders to do just that--show leadership worthy of the United States."

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

383 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 13, 2015 Friday

Washington: Tell Congress: More Funding for Syrian Refugees

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Moveon.org has issued the following news release: 

  

 At last, a bipartisan push has begun in Congress to help Syrian refugees in desperate need--and seizing the opportunity now may be our only chance for the next two years. 


 

 Here's the situation: Millions of families have fled terrorism and their government's bombs, only to face the impossible choice between trying to survive the winter in tents in refugee camps, or making the often lethal trip to Europe. At present, the United States only plans to welcome 10,000 Syrian refugees next year. By comparison, the U.S. welcomed a half-million refugees from Cuba and three quarters of a million from Vietnam.

 

 Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) have proposed emergency funding to help resettle tens of thousands more refugees in the U.S. and give a lifeline to refugees in camps.1 If we want to help more Syrian families, we need to make sure Congress knows the public cares about this, and we need to do it now.

 

 Can you call your senators to tell them you support emergency funding to support Syrian refugees now?

 

 You can say: &ldquo;The U.S. should do more to help Syrian refugees. Please co-sponsor Senate Bill 2145, the Middle East Refugee Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act.&rdquo;

 

  

 

 You can reach your senators via the Capitol Switchboard at (202) 224-3121.

 

 Then, please report your call by clicking here:

 

 http://pol.moveon.org/call?tg=FSNY_1.FSNY_2&cp_id=2431&id=&t=1

 

 Congressional offices say that they're getting slammed with anti-refugee phone calls, many of them laced with ugly stereotypes and even outright hatred. Extremists like Donald Trump paint refugees as terrorists, when in fact refugees are seeking refuge from terrorism--and go through intensive security vetting.

 

 This is a moral moment. If we don't speak up, we leave the debate to those calling for America to turn our backs on the people facing this crisis.

 

 In early September, the photo of a young child who drowned trying to seek safety served the world with a heartbreaking wake-up call. The MoveOn community leaped into action. Together, we raised $250,000 to support refugees. Along with friends from UNHRC--The UN Refugee Agency, Welcoming America, and the Refugee Council USA, we've sent &ldquo;America Welcomes&rdquo; photo messages from across the country to show that we welcome refugees from Syria and elsewhere.

 

 Now, we have to ensure that this message reverberates in Washington. Even as we work to end the tragic conflict that has sent so many families from their homes, we also have to extend a hand to those who need help now. By doing so, we reject the politics of fear that have caused so much pain at home and around the world--and move closer to building the kind of open-hearted country we aspire to become.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

384 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 10, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: 13% Of Syrian Refugees In Europe Are ISIS Sympathizers!

LENGTH: 277  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Religious Freedom Coalition has issued the following news release: 

  

 The Blaze reported on Friday that as many as 13% of the Syrian refugees who are flooding into Europe are Islamic State sympathizers. 


 

 This figure is based on a poll conducted by the Arab Center for Research and Policy Studies, which surveyed 900 refugees.

 

 The poll also showed that 10% of the refugees have a mixed or lukewarm opinion of the Islamic State.

 

 As Investor's Business Daily pointed out, &ldquo;This means 23% -- almost 1 in 4 - could be susceptivle to ISIS recruitment.&rdquo;

 

 It is noteworthy, too, that about 70% of the Syrians that Obama is welcoming into the United States are young men, which fits the profile of Islamic State terrorists.

 Should Christian refugee children be allowed to celebrate Christmas?

 

 Obama wants to let 10,000 Syrian refugees into the United States soon and hundreds of thousands more in the years ahead.

 

 It is likely that one quarter of all of the Muslims that are permitted into the United States will be potential Islamic State killers.

 

 Obama, in effect, is importing an army of heartless, bloodthirsty killers into the United States before he leaves office.

 

 Europe is already learning what it's like to embrace Muslim refugees. They have plunged Europe into cultural chaos - resulting in skyrocketing crime and rape rates wherever there are large concentrations of Muslims.

 

 Barack Hussein Obama is bringing the same hellish invasion into America - a nation he clearly despises.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

385 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 10, 2015 Tuesday

This Week in Markets and Democracy: The Americas' Refugee Crisis, Impunity in Journalist Attacks, and More

LENGTH: 701  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 New York City: Council on Foreign Relations has issued the following news release:

  

 CFR's Civil Society, Markets, and Democracy (CSMD) Program highlights noteworthy events and articles each Friday in &ldquo;This Week in Markets and Democracy.&rdquo; 


 

 The Americas' Refugee Crisis

 As Europe struggles to absorb one million refugees this year alone, the United States is facing its own crisis. From October 2014 to September 2015, U.S. officials detained 80,000 people at the U.S.-Mexico border, mostly women and children from Northern Triangle countries (El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras) where record homicide rates and forcible gang recruitment threaten daily life. A recent United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) report documents the dangers women in particular face, including rape, assault, kidnapping, and extortion. Over the past year Mexico's migrant detention rate doubled, leading the number of Central Americans reaching the U.S. to fall. Still, tens of thousands of migrants wait in the United States in prison-like facilities of questionable legality, given little if any help navigating the U.S. asylum process. Unlike the Europeans, who are debating how to equitably distribute refugees and manage flows, the U.S. government remains largely silent regarding its own humanitarian crisis.

 

 Continued Impunity in Journalist Attacks

 Monday's International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalism memorialized over 1,000 journalists slain since 1992. Over this period the Committee to Protect Journalists counts Iraq, Syria, the Philippines, and Algeria as the deadliest countries for press. With conflicts escalating this year in Yemen and South Sudan, so too did the dangers for reporters; these two nations join Syria and Bangladesh among the top five most perilous places in the world to practice journalism in 2015. Local reporters account for the majority targeted, particularly when investigating corruption or challenging political authority in closed societies. Most attacks against the press go unpunished--only 7 percent of cases are resolved, and less than 10 percent are even investigated. One of the most egregious recent examples is the torture and murder of Mexican photojournalist Ruben Espinosa last summer, a case that remains unsolved.

 

 Changes to the World Bank Doing Business Survey

 The World Bank's annual Doing Business report, released last week, now measures the quality and strength of judicial systems in scoring the business environment of 189 countries. In addition to measuring efficiency (time and cost) of resolving contract disputes--from filing cases to enforcing judgements--Doing Business added a &ldquo;good judicial practices&rdquo; index, looking at court structures, procedures, and whether cases are assigned randomly to avoid corruption. The 2016 report also factors in regulatory transparency in property transactions and electricity tariffs when considering the quality of reforms. Though country rankings changed only slightly with the revised methodology--Singapore ranked number one for the tenth straight year--the shift reflects an effort to incorporate the broader governance issues that affect companies and countries.

 

 TPP Debate Begins

 On Thursday President Obama notified Congress of his intent to sign the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and released all thirty chapters of the trade pact between twelve countries, covering roughly 40 percent of global GDP. As set by terms of the trade promotion authority (TPA), or &ldquo;fast-track&rdquo; legislation passed last summer, the House and Senate now have ninety days to debate the TPP before taking an up-or-down vote. (CFR's Jim Lindsay explains the voting procedure and TPA rules in detail.) After months of criticism of the TPP's closed-door negotiations and speculation over more controversial provisions--on the environment, labor rights, and intellectual property (IP)--TPP proponents and detractors can now analyze what the U.S. may gain and lose from the deal.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

386 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

November 9, 2015 Monday

Refugees then and now

BYLINE: In Our Opinion For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 547 words

Three hundred and ninety-five years ago today, the Mayflower arrived in Cape Cod, Massachusetts. As we change focus from elections to Thanksgiving, it is instructive to consider some of the many parallels between the pilgrims who celebrated the first Thanksgiving and the refugees fleeing across Europe today. 
The Thanksgiving story begins in England with a small group of people studying the Bible and other religious texts. At that time most countries had a government-sponsored church that combined the coercive powers of government with the passionate fervor of religion. It was this lethal combination that later motivated the Founding Fathers to adopt the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States guaranteeing religious freedom by separating these two powerful forces.
As these English believers began to express their evolving faith verbally and in written form, the government exerted increasing efforts to constrain both their speech and their worship. Recognizing they would likely be imprisoned if they remained in England, this small group emigrated to the Netherlands, which was one of the few bastions of religious freedom in Europe at the time. Even though the group was living in the Netherlands, the English church and government made more attempts to arrest and imprison its leaders.
In an effort to preserve their liberties while exercising their faith, the pilgrims, along with others, set out on a dangerous journey to relocate to a land where they could pursue their aspirations for a better life. In doing so they joined the ranks of millions who throughout the centuries have become refugees, fleeing persecution, war and famine in search of a better life.
The pilgrims did not have sufficient means to pay the full cost of this migration. Therefore, they made special arrangements with their backers to work in bonded servitude until their backers were fully compensated for the cost of the migration.
As is the case with many refugees today, the journey would be by water. The pilgrims planned to use two ships - the Mayflower and the Speedwell. As is sometimes the case with seafaring refugees today, the Speedwell began to take on water and had to turn back. Some of the refugees were left behind while the remainder crowded together on the Mayflower. By the time of the first Thanksgiving a year later, nearly half of them would perish from exposure, disease and other causes. Nevertheless, a year later they came together in a feast of thanksgiving for this new land where they were free to live and worship according to their beliefs.
Today it is estimated that about 10 percent of Americans (or over 35 million people) are direct descendants of this little band of refugees that came to America on the Mayflower.
Many of the refugees in Europe today are fleeing because of the toxic brew of combining governmental coercive power with religious fervor. Many of them will cross waters on crowded ships of questionable seaworthiness. In preparation for the Thanksgiving holiday celebrations, the nation would do well to reflect on the pilgrims' arrival in America as refugees from Europe and look for ways to reach out to assist modern-day refugees who have aspirations similar to those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving at Plymouth Colony.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

387 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

November 7, 2015 Saturday  
Late Edition - Final

Where to Settle Refugees? Detroit and Rural Greece

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 271 words

To the Editor:
Re ''Italy's Modern-Day Settlers,'' by Beppe Severgnini (Op-Ed, Nov. 4):  
  While some of Italy's rural areas are rapidly depopulating, some American cities face a similar crisis. The United States should invite the refugees from the Middle East and other regions now thronging to Europe to live in underpopulated Detroit.
  In that city, home to America's largest Arab-American population, these immigrants would find a welcoming culture. They would bring energy and skills to a city in desperate need. Perhaps most important, such action would save us from the eternal shame of turning our backs on the hundreds of thousands of desperate people now overwhelming Europe.
  MARIAN BASS
  Princeton, N.J.
  To the Editor:
  Settling migrants as Beppe Severgnini suggests would positively and measurably affect not just Italy but also many other European countries suffering from low birthrates and emptying rural populations. It would also help the environment.
  In Greece, where I was born and take students on study abroad programs every summer, wildfires are a regular menace, made worse by unattended farms with wild grass that allow flames to spread easily. Resettling migrants in the Greek countryside would also support regional economies.
  However, religious uniformity and fear of Muslims prevent any meaningful discussion on the issue. It's O.K. to destroy the environment and keep rural Greece poor, but not to allow human beings who could help solve these problems do so.
  TASO G. LAGOS
  Seattle
  The writer is director of foreign studies at the Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/07/opinion/where-to-settle-refugees-detroit-and-rural-greece.html

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

389 of 999 DOCUMENTS


US Official News

November 5, 2015 Thursday

Washington: More than Our Share of Refugees

LENGTH: 126  words

DATELINE: Lahore


 Washington: Eagle Forum has issued the following news release: 

  

  The United States is the most generous nation in the world, and we have taken many refugees from foreign lands. Europe did not offer to take refugees who came to us from Central America last year, so why have some politicians insisted that we take thousands of refugees from the Middle East? While refugee crises are tragic, crimes committed by transplanted peoples against \ victims in our own country are even more tragic. Politicians demanding that American neighborhoods accept thousands of immigrants, without proper screening for crime or disease, should be rejected. 


  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

390 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 2, 2015 Monday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: U.S Department of State Diplomacy in Action has issued the following news release:

  

 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping them build new lives in all 50 states. 


 Identifying Refugees

 

 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?

 

 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?

 

 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal Year 2016:

 

     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to respond to emergent situations. Entering the U.S. Resettlement System

 

 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S. resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security screening.

 Refugee Screening Process

 

 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of Defense.

 

 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant. USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a &ldquo;sponsorship assurance&rdquo; from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life

 

 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: 

 editorial@plusme.com      

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

392 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary © 2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 767 words

Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA. 
The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.
In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from the state-sponsored church.
Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the West Indies.
Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.
Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S. skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1 percent.
The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed, at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.
As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another 7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.
In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5 percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle East-North Africa region.
The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.
In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the administration by the United Nations.
According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to agree to provide the funds.
The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current regional conflict.
Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic in 1979.
Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.
In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle East.
Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."
Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for 15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

395 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 29, 2015 Thursday

Ohio: Opinion: Refugee crisis is new front line in trans-Atlantic fight for liberty in Ukraine

LENGTH: 922  words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Columbus: Office of the House of Representative Marcy kaptur has issued the following news release:

  

 Since World War II, the trans-Atlantic alliance between the United States and its European allies has stood as a beacon of liberty and hope for subjugated people around the world. This alliance won a 40-year struggle when the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, followed by the collapse of the Soviet Union two years later. Soviet Communists and Nazi Fascists were defeated on the continent where they had taken root. Hungary, Poland, the Baltic States, the Czech and Slovak republics entered NATO's mutual security pact. Former captive nations became free. Next year, Ukraine will celebrate a quarter century of independence. Liberty has been on the march on the European continent. 


 

 Today the story is more ominous. On April 27, 2014, Russian President Vladimir Putin admitted to the world that his military had invaded Ukraine.

 

 Already, more than 1.4 million people have been displaced.

 

 At least 8,000 have been killed and nearly 20,000 injured.

 

 Russia continues to illegally occupy Crimea and Ukraine's eastern provinces.

 

 This is not the first time Russia has stormed the borderlands surrounding it. But unlike in the past, this Russian invasion has gone largely unchecked. Now Russia, emboldened by its perception of Western weakness, has launched airstrikes over Syria. This has added lethal complexity to the conflict and created ever-greater waves of Syrian, Iraqi, Afghani, Eritrean, and Pakistani refugees flowing into Europe by way of Turkey, Greece, Libya, and points east.

 

 Human traffickers aid the flow to NATO's doorstep.

 

 Europe's southeasterly edge of Hungary, Serbia, Croatia, Macedonia, etc. has struggled to handle this massive flight and is overwhelmed.&lrm; NATO has been slow to respond.

 

 Vladimir Putin benefits from destabilizing the European Union&lrm; and the trans-Atlantic alliance. From his perspective, exacerbating conflict is a strategic plus.

 

 Germany, which has stood strong on Russian sanctions in response to the illegal invasion of Ukraine, is now the principal destination for refugees.

 

 NATO members Hungary, Austria, Poland, and others also face security pressures on their borders, as legions of Arab, Pashtun and other refugees challenge Europe's internal cohesion. How intense will the backlash to the refugee flow become across Europe, with the Russian propaganda machine spewing out venom across the continent?

 

 Initially, Europe has had the means to address the challenge. But it is a heavy burden as refugees fill railway stations, school auditoriums, and parks.

 

 Meanwhile NATO-vacated properties in Germany are sitting unused. They could be converted into emergency holding areas to accept refugees, heal the wounded, verify documents, and repatriate or resettle them in Middle Eastern nations or elsewhere.

 

 The United States and the free world did this well after World War II. Past U.S. presidents have stood strong against Soviet aggression.

 

 John F. Kennedy made a lasting impression in his Berlin address in 1963 when he said &ldquo;Ich bin ein Berliner!&rdquo;

 

 In 1987, Ronald Reagan traveled to the Brandenburg Gate and challenged Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev, &ldquo;Tear down this wall!&rdquo;

 

 In 1990 America led its allies in a military campaign defending Kuwait against Iraq's invasion. Four years later the United States, Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom signed the Budapest Memorandum, which &ldquo;reaffirmed&rdquo; their commitment to &ldquo;respect the independence and sovereignty and the existing borders of Ukraine&rdquo; in return for that country dismantling its vast nuclear weapons arsenal--the third largest in the world.

 

 A serious promise was made; it is not being kept.

 

 Ukraine's stability is critical to European stability.

 

 The Ukrainian people have held fast even in the face of a vastly more powerful invading force.

 

 Out-manned and out-gunned, they have exercised an iron will to keep Russia's imperial march in check.

 

 Yet America and its allies have mostly looked away while Ukraine's long-suffering Western-leaning people are under siege. Americans traveling to Ukraine are welcomed and cheered. Ukrainians endeavor to be America's partners, but America must lead the free world forward. Winter is coming.

 

 Russia seeks to score a huge victory by seizing Ukraine's most valuable economic regions. Ukraine's soldiers need modern telecommunications equipment and weapons to stop Russian tanks. &lrm;The wounded need medical supplies.

 

 Before the snow flies, the beleaguered people of Ukraine must be given hope akin to World War II's Berlin Airlift. Mobilizing global assistance to Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon would also help stem refugee flows to Europe. The world must not accept Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine or the consequences will continue to spill over. If Ukraine's dire plight is not addressed soon, there could be millions more refugees steaming across Europe in the coming months and years.

 

 The trans-Atlantic alliance has a duty and a compelling moral and geo-strategic interest to aid in Ukraine's defense, help treat the wounded and increase humanitarian assistance. For the sake of liberty in Europe and around the world, America, NATO, and the trans-Atlantic alliance must lead. The world is waiting.&lrm; 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

396 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

October 26, 2015 Monday  
Politifact.com Edition

SEAN HANNITY FALLS FOR HOAX WEBSITE ON CLAIM THAT U.S. IS TAKING IN 250,000 SYRIAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: JON GREENBERG

SECTION: PUNDITFACT

LENGTH: 796 words

"The president said he's going to bring in 250,000 (Syrian and Iraqi) refugees into this country."
- Sean Hannity on Monday, October 19th, 2015 in a segment of Fox News' "Hannity"
* * * 
The Ruling: PANTS ON FIRE!
The waves of refugees fleeing Syria and Iraq have given the conflict there a domestic immediacy in the race for the White House. While Europe is absorbing the great majority of refugees, some are headed toward the United States. The question is, how many?
About 250,000, according to Fox News host Sean Hannity. During an interview with Republican presidential contender Jeb Bush on Oct. 19, 2015, Hannity worried that ISIS would try to infiltrate the arriving masses.
"You see the backlash emerging now in Europe over the refugee problem for Syria and Iraq," Hannity said. "The president said he's going to bring in 250,000 refugees into this country."
"We can't take 250,000 refugees," Bush responded. "I've never heard that, and that would be impossible to imagine logistically for us to screen."
In plain fact, President Barack Obama never said that, nor as far as anyone can tell has any member of his administration. In September, White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters Obama "informed his team that he would like them to accept -- at least make preparations to accept -- at least 10,000 Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year."
In its Fiscal Year 2016 budget request, the administration is asking for enough money to resettle 85,000 people in total from around the world. The figure would rise to 100,000 in Fiscal Year 2017.
The 250,000 figure, if it were accurate, would dwarf the 120,000 refugees from the Syrian conflict the European community said it aims to relocate inside its members' borders.
The Migration Policy Institute gathers data to track the movement of people across the globe.
"We are not aware of any suggestion that the United States would seek to resettle 250,000 refugees from Syria or Iraq," Michelle Mittelstadt, the institute's director of communications, told us.
We reached out to Hannity's program and did not hear back.
The figure he used seems to have emerged in early September on a website called realnewsrightnow.com. The website reported that State Department spokeswoman Cathy Pieper announced that 250,000 Syrian refugees would be resettled on tribal reservation lands in Arizona and North Dakota.
We could find no Cathy Pieper working for the State Department.
Other articles on realnewsrightnow.com claim that "Obama will exercise his presidential powers" ending term limits and that Pope Francis claimed that "God Has Instructed Me to Revise the Ten Commandments."
The author of all the articles is R. Hobbus J.D., who "has received numerous awards for his work including the prestigious Stephen Glass Distinction in Journalistic Integrity (2011), The Oscar Mayer Award for Journalistic Excellence (2003), three Nobel Peace Prize nominations, one Pulitzer in Investigative Reporting (1998), and two Pulitzer Prizes in Commentary (1996, 2008). He resides comfortably in his modest home overlooking the coast of Nantucket surrounded by his wife and twelve cats."
Long story short, while we don't know where Hannity got his number, it appears someone fell for a hoax from a fake news website.
For the record, Hannity brought up the figure again Oct. 20 during an interview with Donald Trump. And Trump then used the 250,000 figure at a townhall meeting broadcast live on NBC in New Hampshire, Oct. 26.
---
Our ruling
Hannity said that Obama plans to bring 250,000 Syrian and Iraqi refugees to America. The number is not only disconnected from anything Obama or his administration ever said, it flies in the face of any number associated with America's refugee resettlement program.
In fact, it is about three times bigger than the total number of refugees Obama has asked to bring in during 2016 from all around the world.
We rate this claim Pants on Fire.
* * *
About this statement:
Published: Monday, October 26th, 2015 at 5:16 p.m.
Researched by: Jon Greenberg
Edited by: Aaron Sharockman
Subjects: Foreign Policy, Immigration, Terrorism
Sources:
Fox News, Hannity, Oct. 19, 2015
NBC News, Today, Oct. 26, 2015
White House, Daily press briefing, Sept. 10, 2015
U.S. State Department, FY13 Refugee Admissions Statistics, July 1, 2014
U.S. State Department, Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016, Oct. 1, 2015
Migration Policy Institute, Europe's Migration Crisis in Context: Why Now and What Next?, Sept. 24, 2015
Realnewsrightnow.com, U.S. to House 250,000 Syrian Refugees at Navajo, Standing Rock Indian Reservations, Sept. 6, 2015
Email interview, Peter Boogaard, spokesman, National Security Council, Oct. 26, 2015
Email interview, Michelle Mittelstadt, director of communications, Migration Policy Institute, Oct. 26, 2015

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIDEO: Clips of Sean Hannity and Donald Trump discussing the 250,000 Syrian refugees President Barack Obama said he would allow into the United States. PHOTO (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

397 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 26, 2015 Monday

Washington: Shaheen Urges DHS to Share Processing Best Practices With European Partners to Help Address Refugee Crisis

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Senator Jeanne Shaheen has issued the following news release:

  

 Today, U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), the lead Democrat on both the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs and the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, wrote to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson urging the department to share best-practices for processing migrants developed on the U.S. Southwest border, with European allies struggling with the surge of Syrian refugees. Shaheen's recommendations follow the trip she led earlier this month to Europe where she was briefed on the Syrian refugee crisis, and a trip earlier this year to the U.S. border with Mexico where she was briefed by DHS officials on the surge of Central American migrants. 


 

 &ldquo;The burden on these nations, their local communities and their infrastructure, is staggering, and that is why I am requesting you work to identify ways in which the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) can assist your counterparts in European nations bearing the weight of the refugee crisis, fully recognizing that there may be constraints to U.S. involvement,&rdquo; Shaheen writes. &ldquo;&hellip;I know that DHS has developed proven techniques for receiving and processing large numbers of individuals. DHS officials from across the agency who dealt with the Southwest border surge have a tremendous level of expertise in matters such as verifying an individual's identity, registering family units together, and providing basic health screenings.  These best practices could be shared with front-line nations in Europe struggling to handle thousands and thousands of arriving refugees each day.&rdquo;

 

 Shaheen led a Senate Delegation earlier this month to Europe that included visits to Greece and Germany to receive a series of in-country briefings on the Syrian refugee crisis. In both countries, the senators had the opportunity to visit reception centers where newly-arrived refugees are processed and provided basic services. While on the island of Lesvos, Greece, the delegation got to see one of the main entry points for Syrian refugees into Europe and were provided one of several opportunities to meet with refugees to hear their first-hand experiences of their difficult journeys and entry into Europe.

 

 Earlier this year, Senator Shaheen and Senator John Hoeven (R-ND), the Ranking Member and Chairman of the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee respectively, visited Texas to observe border security and immigration enforcement efforts along the Southwest border. Senators Shaheen and Hoeven were able to see firsthand the methods used by U.S. Border Patrol to process incoming migrants from Central America.

 

 The full text of Senator Shaheen's letter is available below.

 

 October 23, 2015

 

 The Honorable Jeh Johnson

 

 Secretary

 

 Department of Homeland Security

 

 3801 Nebraska Ave NW

 

 Washington, DC 20016

 

 Dear Secretary Johnson:

 

 As the lead Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Security Cooperation, I recently led a Congressional delegation to Europe to learn more about how the European Union (EU) and its member states are dealing with the migration crisis.

 

 Nearly a quarter million Syrians have been killed during the current conflict, an estimated eight million Syrians have been displaced internally, and another four million have left the country.  Refugees are fleeing hunger, unspeakable violence, and a land that no longer offers any hope for their children.  They have endured barrel bombs, chemical attacks, indiscriminate shelling, the barbarity of ISIS, and, now, a military offensive sponsored by Russia and Iran.

 

 To reach Europe, refugees have been preyed upon by traffickers and smugglers - some selling refugee children for sex, for slavery, or for organs.  They have risked drowning at sea and suffocation in locked vans, and they will soon confront the freezing temperatures and snows of winter.

 

 In Greece, our Congressional delegation visited Lesvos, an island of 80,000 people in the Aegean Sea that is popular with tourists.  Lesvos is now dealing with 3,000-4,000 migrants from Turkey arriving on its shores every day, and working with the Greek government, the island is providing facilities for receiving, processing, and housing refugees.

 

 In Greece and Germany, we held in-depth discussions with government officials responsible for border security, intelligence gathering, and refugee resettlement activities.  We visited with non-profit organizations helping the hundreds of thousands of refugees that have made their way to Europe.

 

 The burden on these nations, their local communities and their infrastructure, is staggering, and that is why I am requesting you work to identify ways in which the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) can assist your counterparts in European nations bearing the weight of the refugee crisis, fully recognizing that there may be constraints to U.S. involvement.

 

 Having visited the Southwest U.S. border earlier this year to examine how our nation was dealing with an influx of migrants from Central America, I know that DHS has developed proven techniques for receiving and processing large numbers of individuals.  DHS officials from across the agency who dealt with the Southwest border surge have a tremendous level of expertise in matters such as verifying an individual's identity, registering family units together, and providing basic health screenings.  These best practices could be shared with front-line nations in Europe struggling to handle thousands and thousands of arriving refugees each day.

 

 Providing key technical assistance could cut down on the time it takes for a refugee to be processed and transferred from so-called &ldquo;hot spot&rdquo; areas, reducing the burden on local communities like Lesvos and easing the path for weary migrants.

 

 Similarly, DHS could engage with officials in nations like Germany, where a majority of refugees are seeking to resettle, to share knowledge on efficient ways to screen and register refugees, and to identify and root out criminal smuggling operations.  I understand that there are some personnel from Customs and Border Protection in Germany now, but I believe that additional assistance from DHS officials would be welcomed by nations throughout Europe.

 

 While no lasting solution to the migration crisis is possible without dealing with the root problem of violence and conflict in Syria, in the interim, the United States should be doing more to partner with our allies in Europe to address the crisis.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

399 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: MURPHY LAUDS GRAHAM-LEAHY REFUGEE BILL, VOWS TO [#xfffd]GET THIS TO THE FINISH LINE"

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Senator Christopher S. Murphy has issued the following news release:

  

 Today, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) joined the Middle East Refugee Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), as a cosponsor. Earlier this week, Murphy led a group of 28 Senate Democrats in calling for immediate consideration of emergency funding to provide humanitarian relief to Syrian refugees and to increase the capacity for refugee admissions to the United States. The letter, addressed to bipartisan leaders of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee and the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Subcommittee, emphasized that organizations aiding Syrian refugees are on the verge of running out of money, and that if the United States and our partners fail to fill funding gaps, refugee families will lose access to basic services like food and shelter. 


 

 &ldquo;I'm proud to cosponsor Senators Graham and Leahy's bipartisan emergency appropriations bill to address the growing refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe,&rdquo; said Murphy. &ldquo;I visited a refugee camp last month and have seen firsthand the horror through which hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children are living. The United States has a responsibility - not only to our partners and allies, but to our consciences - to step up and do our part. I will proudly stand alongside Republicans and Democrats to get this to the finish line.&rdquo;

 

 &ldquo;The United States has a long tradition as a safe haven for innocent families fleeing troubled parts of the world. Throughout history, America's willingness to aide those forced out of their homes has set us apart as a nation, and it's why the United States is a beacon of freedom for people around the world,&rdquo; Murphy added.

 

 Last month, Murphy and U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-Mich.) traveled to Jordan, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, and Qatar, where they held meetings with officials to discuss ongoing anti-ISIL military operations in Iraq and Syria, and the spiraling humanitarian crisis resulting from those conflicts. As the United States considers additional refugees for resettlement, U.S. security considerations remain paramount. Before being permitted to enter the United States, all admitted refugees undergo extensive background checks and vetting of their biographic and biometric data against a broad array of U.S. law enforcement and counterterrorism databases.

 

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

402 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

October 17, 2015 Saturday

Guest column; 
U.S. obligated to aid Syrian refugees

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 620 words

Every day, we are bombarded with stories about refugees who escaped the horrific civil war in Syria. There are photos of dead children washing up on beaches while news stories report how Syrians are fleeing en mass into Europe.
Syria had a population of about 23 million before the start of the war four years ago. Besides the dead and injured, the United Nations says some 3.73 million Syrians -- more than four times the population of Indianapolis -- have fled the country and officially registered as refugees.
 More than a decade after putting American military forces into Iraq and shaking up the Middle East with one failed policy after another, the U.S. government must intervene but not by sending in ground troops or using our jets to bomb. Military intervention in this conflict can accomplish little so long as Russian forces are operating in Syria in cooperation with Bashar al-Assad's regime. 
 Instead, the United States should absorb a greater share of the refugees that have flooded Europe. Looking at U.S. involvement in the Middle East since 2003, we must realize that the American government's actions have led to this avalanche of refugees.
 Soon after the Iraq War began, the false promise of democracy led the Americans to cooperate with and support the Shia majority at the expense of the large Sunni minority that had dominated the country under Saddam Hussein. The dissolution of the Iraqi army that followed the U.S. invasion sent 400,000 armed Sunni troops, now unemployed, into the streets, humiliated and angry at America.
 This sowed the seeds for the insurgency that erupted that summer. In addition to disgruntled soldiers, it included jihadists from neighboring countries who marveled at the opportunity to fight Americans. Images posted online of American soldiers torturing Muslims in Iraq fueled recruitment efforts of radical groups such as al-Qaida.
 When the political protests and revolutions known as the Arab Spring erupted in 2011, American foreign policy appeared undecided, hesitant to support democracy and oppose "friendly" dictators the United States has sustained over the years and reactionary regimes whose actions it ignored.
 In Syria, the absence of proactive American measures from the onset, comparable to those taken in Libya, has de facto allowed Assad to murder a quarter of a million of his citizens in the course of a civil war that has been ongoing for nearly five years. The war, in which numerous groups have been fighting one another and the Assad regime, generated chaos that was jihadists' finest hour.
 By early 2013, al-Qaida-affiliated groups already controlled substantial parts of Syria. By June 2014, ISIS, a group that emerged but later separated from al-Qaida, had swept through Iraq and Syria, capturing vast areas from the crumbling Syrian and U.S.-trained and equipped Iraqi armies. And yet the United States refused to intervene beyond sending a handful of advisers to assist local forces fighting ISIS and bombing from the air. The latter only led to a surge in recruitment for ISIS, as young Muslims flocked into Syria to fight Americans.
 After years of war, many Syrians have given up their hopes of returning home and want to leave the Middle East for good. Consequently, Europe has been inundated with refugees. But the situation in Syria is not Europe's doing. It should therefore not be Europe's problem. We created ISIS, we refrained from intervening against Assad, and therefore we are responsible for this mess.
 It is time to take responsibility for it and offer Syrian refugees a safe place to rebuild their lives in the United States.
 -- Yaron Ayalon is an assistant professor of history at Ball State University and a Middle East specialist.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The State Journal- Register
All Rights Reserved

403 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 16, 2015 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice: 

  

    Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 80 , No. 200 / Friday, October 16, 2015 / Presidential Documents [[Page 62433]] Presidential Determination No. 2015-14 of September 29, 2015 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of up to 85,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.  
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members): Africa................................................. 25,000 East Asia.............................................. 13,000 Europe and Central Asia................................ 4,000 Latin America/Caribbean................................ 3,000 Near East/South Asia................................... 34,000 Unallocated Reserve.................................... 6,000 The 6,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2016, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics [[Page 62434]] c. Persons in Iraq d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                 

                     (Presidential Sig.)

 

                 THE WHITE HOUSE,

 

                     Washington, September 29, 2015

 

 [FR Doc. 2015-26493

 Filed 10-15-15; 8:45 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

407 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

October 15, 2015 Thursday

Durbin says U.S. should take in 100,000 Syrian refugees

BYLINE: Bernard Schoenburg Political Writer

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 662 words

The United States should allow 100,000 Syrian refugees, with proper background checks, into the country, U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin said Wednesday.
The Springfield Democrat, in a conference call with reporters, discussed his recent trip to Ukraine and Greece. On the Greek island of Lesbos, he said, he met with some of the thousands of Syrian refugees who have traveled there. He said 4 million people have left Syria, going to "Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and many other places. And it continues unabated."
 "This ... refugee crisis is the most significant humanitarian challenge of our time," Durbin said. "You have to go back to World War II to see similar movements of displaced people." 
 "There is great suffering and exploitation of refugees while they are moving," Durbin added. "You have to imagine how desperate people would be to send a 15-year-old boy with his 8-year-old sister alone ... to try to find a safe place to live in Europe."
 Despite financial problems in Greece, Durbin said that country has exhibited "extraordinary effort to try to accommodate these people."
 As refugees travel to destinations across Europe, many are paying thousands of dollars -- gathered from "selling everything they have" or borrowing from relatives -- to pay smugglers to help them cross borders, Durbin said.
 "Keep in mind, these smugglers are ruthless," he said. "They exploit these poor refugees. And in the case of children, many of them are seized by these smugglers and become victims of human trafficking, some even sold into bondage for organ harvesting. I mean, there are just outrageous stories going on here."
 But he also said people leaving Syria include "some of the most well-educated people."
 "They're desperate," Durbin said. "They don't see the return to a normal society soon."
 At a refugee processing center in Lesbos, he said, he met with four people in their 20s, all college graduates and one planning to be a doctor, who "picked up and left," saying: "We had to get away from the war. We've got to find another life."
 Durbin said that in four years of the war in Syria, the United States has been generous with aid but has taken in only 2,000 refugees from the country. He said the United States now takes in only 70,000 refugees annually from across the globe. He didn't put a time limit on how long it should take, but he said the U.S. should take in 100,000 people from Syria.
 He said calls to his office show that "there are families and churches, temples and synagogues who are open to the notion of helping these people be assimilated into America."
 Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump said Sept. 30 in New Hampshire that if he is elected president, he would send back Syrian refugees taken in by the U.S. because they may be Islamic State militants in disguise, The Associated Press reported.
 "I'm putting the people on notice that are coming here from Syria as part of this mass migration," Trump said in Keene, New Hampshire. "If I win, they're going back."
 Durbin, asked about Trump's comments, said, "There are hateful voices like Donald Trump's around the world who are rejecting" the refugees.
 "In honest terms, if we had said that to the Jews in the Soviet Union, how many would have died?" Durbin said. "If we had rejected the refugees coming in from Cuba after the takeover by Castro, what would their fate have been?"
 Durbin said that the United States took in 750,000 or more refugees from Vietnam after the war there, more than 500,000 from Cuba, more than 200,000 Jews facing persecution in the old Soviet Union, and more than 100,000 people from Somalia.
 "Luckily, the American people still are good, caring people," Durbin said. "And we will carefully review each application for refugee status."
 Durbin's trip was with Democratic U.S. Sens. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.
 --Contact Bernard Schoenburg: bernard.schoenburg@sj-r.com, 788-1540, twitter.com/bschoenburg.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The State Journal- Register
All Rights Reserved

409 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

October 14, 2015 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

A World Awash in Desperate Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 592 words

To the Editor:
Re ''Refugees, Stuck in Grinding U.S. Process, Wait and Hope'' (news article, Oct. 11): 
  The United States could meet its goals and resettle far more refugees from Syria, Iraq and other parts of the Middle East in the coming years if it reformed its process for screening refugees for national security concerns.
  That process, known innocuously as the Controlled Application Review and Resolution Program of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, is not only inefficient -- resulting in the reported delays of up to two years to process a refugee resettlement application -- but also ineffective and discriminatory. 
  The program relies heavily on profiling criteria, like national origin, languages spoken and professional expertise, to label applicants as possible ''national security concerns'' and bar them from resettling as refugees in the United States.
  Far from weeding out would-be terrorists, the program weeds out legitimate refugees. Increasing the quota of refugees the United States will accept for resettlement means little, so long as we cannot meet that quota because of the current screening process.
  It is imperative that the government reform that process to ensure that genuine refugees can expeditiously reach American shores.
  JENNIE PASQUARELLA
  Los Angeles
  The writer is a staff lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.
  To the Editor:
  Thanks to Sonia Nazario for documenting the experiences of the Pérez family fleeing Honduras and hoping to find safety in the United States (''Refugees at Our Door,'' Sunday Review, Oct. 11).
  As a human rights observer and an international election observer in Honduras, I know that the violence they experienced in their country is widespread and occurs with impunity because of the complicity of the Honduran government.
  Assaults on Central Americans passing through Mexico that Ms. Nazario describes are also well known to those of us who volunteer with humanitarian organizations in Arizona, by the accounts we hear from the migrants we serve.
  The fact that our government bears significant responsibility for the violence that the Pérez family and so many others confront in Honduras and Mexico is painful. Ours was the only government to accept the legitimacy of the 2009 military coup in Honduras. The resulting government, which remains in power by means of a flawed election, continues with United States political and financial support.
  The article brings to light ugly truths that all Americans need to know. And those of us who have come to know these refugees, and to respect their immense courage, want them to be understood and welcomed here. 
  LOIS MARTIN
  Tucson
  To the Editor:
  As migrants from the Middle East and North Africa continue to pour into Western Europe, increasingly through ''back door'' portals (''Why Are Migrants in the Arctic, on Bikes? Path Leads to Europe,'' front page, Oct. 10), other countries besides Germany and Sweden that are (or will be) ''labor short'' over the next 20 years -- like China, Japan, Russia and South Korea -- should open their doors to those fleeing persecution and war-related violence, at least temporarily.
  This would be mutually beneficial: It would alleviate the impending labor shortages in these countries to the benefit of their national economies, and would offer much-needed relief to the desperate refugees washing up on Europe's shores. 
  IRA SOHN
  Upper Montclair, N.J.
  The writer is a professor of economics and finance at Montclair State University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/14/opinion/a-world-awash-in-desperate-refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

410 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Border Challenges: Responding to the Global Migration Crisis

BYLINE: TOM MARSHALL and MICHAEL GONCHAR

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2098 words


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson we help students explore the global migration crisis, first through maps and photographs, then with a class reading and discussion, and next by way of research. 

What should you do when a stranger appears at your door asking for help? That situation is playing out across dozens of countries around the world this year as war, crime and other threats push record numbers of migrants to seek new homes.  Some 60 million people were on the move as 2015 began, as people sought new homelands from the Americas to Europe, Africa and Asia. 
In this lesson we help students explore the global migration crisis, first through maps and photographs, then with a class reading and discussion, and next by way of a research assignment. In the Going Further section, we suggest ideas for holding a congressional hearing, drawing historical connections and more.
 Key Questions  

•	How much responsibility should individual people or nations take for welcoming migrants from other countries?
•	Why do some people or nations view migrants as a threat, while others view them as a boon?
 Warm Up | Last year the world experienced the highest levels of global forced displacement ever recorded, and this year the crisis seems even more extreme. Where are all these people coming from? And where are they going?
Ask students to show what they already think they know by having them sketch arrows on a blank world map (PDF)  illustrating where the largest groups of migrants are on the move from country to country and region to region. Then, have them compare their sketches with this National Geographic map. What did they illustrate accurately? What surprised them?
Next, present students with a slide show illustrating the flow of migrants from Syria and other countries to Germany. As they look through the photographs, have students jot down details they observe. Then discuss: What do they notice? What questions do the photos raise for them? (One resource for some of their questions before you begin the full lesson might be this Times Q & A, "The Migrant Crisis in Europe: Readers' Questions Answered.")
 Whole Class Reading | Photographs and maps provide a snapshot of the migration crisis around the world, but having students read one story together can help the class envision what this crisis means for one family and its host community. Perhaps you want to read the first few paragraphs aloud as a class before directing students to read silently and answer the questions below. 
In the article, "Syrian Refugees Are Among the Few to Start Life in the U.S.," Hussam Al Roustom, a refugee, recalled the moment in 2011 when the civil war in his country prompted him to leave with his family.
The supermarket he owned was ransacked and one of his two homes was destroyed. His son, Wesam, who has autism and was frightened by the shelling, stopped speaking.
In March 2013, Mr. Al Roustom paid a smuggler to take him and his family through the desert, leaving them to hike over a mountain into Jordan. The police then took the family to the Zaatari refugee camp, where he registered with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The article continues with Mr. Al Roustom's story:
"I tell people not to be scared and to have patience and to work hard," he said. "And perhaps rely on the support you're given, but not to overuse it and abuse it."
While reading the article, students can answer the following questions.
 Reading Comprehension Questions 

•	What changes did President Obama decide to make regarding refugees in the coming year?
•	What sorts of organizations handle the resettlement of refugees or migrants in the United States?
•	What kinds of services do these organizations and the government provide refugees?
•	What is the migration story of Hussam Al Roustom and his family?
•	How is the migration story of Mohamed Darbi and his family both similar and different?
Then, ask students to share the aspects that surprised them or gave them new information on the subject of migrants. You may also want to discuss one or more of the Key Questions we listed at the top of this lesson. 
 Inquiry Activity 
Ask students to delve deeper into the global migration crisis by doing their own research. They might want to start with one our suggested Key Questions, or use the Think/Puzzle/Explore process (PDF) to help them figure out what they want to investigate further.
The resources below provide different perspectives and stories from around the world. If you decide to have students work in pairs or small groups, you can use the category and region labels as a way to divide or guide students. 
Depending on your teaching goals, you might ask students to choose one or more articles from the list below, or to do more intense research both in The Times and elsewhere, before writing up what they learned and presenting to the class.
 Providing Assistance to Migrants 
U.S. | Religious Leaders Embrace Cause of Immigrant Children
Europe | Germany Works to Get Migrants Jobs
Europe | Small Cafe Offers Refuge to Desperate Migrants
Europe | Librarian Makes a Difference Across the Channel
 Resistance to Migrants 
U.S. | Refugee Crisis Raises Fears in South Carolina
U.S. | Towns Fight to Avoid Taking Migrant Minors
Europe | Economic Migrants Turned Back
Europe | Treatment of Migrants Evokes Memories of Europe's Darkest Hour
 Stories of Migrants 
Central America | The Teenager Who Walked to the U.S.
Europe | The Girl Who Made Merkel Blink
Asia | A Migrant Mother's Anguished Choice
Africa | Young African Migrants Caught in Trafficking Machine
Europe | Traveling in a River of Migrants
 Migration Policy and Patterns 
U.S. | Share of Immigrants Nears Highs of Early 20th Century
Europe | Seeking a Fair Distribution of Migrants in Europe
 Going Further 
 Hold a Congressional Hearing 
Hold a simulated Congressional hearing on the subject of opening America's doors to global refugees. You can assign students to one of three groups: opponents of allowing more refugees into the United States, supporters of allowing more refugees into the United States and Congress members. Students assigned to the first two groups can prepare statements to be read at the hearing, while the third group can prepare questions to ask the speakers. 
At the hearing, students can present some or all of their arguments while the members of Congress ask questions. Finally, after the hearing, the members of Congress can prepare statements explaining how they will vote on the issue based on the testimony provided by both sides.
 Organize a Model United Nations 
Students can represent different countries in a session on how responsibility should be shared for the global migration crisis. Using Times reporting, they can learn where countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, Turkey, China and the United States stand on the issue and then craft a detailed speech representing their position on the subject. In the session, students might then vote on how many migrants countries should take in, or what financial responsibility nations should shoulder to address the global migration crisis. 
 Use History as a Guide 
Europe faces its worst refugee crisis since World War II, and many observers see echoes of the past in how the Continent is treating thousands of migrants. In "Treatment of Migrants Evokes Memories of Europe's Darkest Hour," Rick Lyman writes: 
BUDAPEST - In Hungary, hundreds of migrants surrounded by armed police officers were tricked into boarding a train with promises of freedom, only to be taken to a "reception" camp. In the Czech Republic, the police hustled more than 200 migrants off a train and wrote identification numbers on their hands with indelible markers, stopping only when someone pointed out that this was more than a little like the tattoos the Nazis put on concentration camp inmates.
Razor-wire fences rise along national borders in Greece, Bulgaria, Hungary and France. Many political leaders stoke rising nationalism by portraying the migrants as dangerous outsiders whose foreign cultures and Muslim religion could overwhelm cherished traditional ways.
Read the entire article, then discuss: What lessons from history, particularly World War II and the Holocaust, should Europe and the world use to guide how migrants are treated today? 
 Pay Attention to Language 
With so many millions of people around the world fleeing from war, persecution and poverty, the language we use to describe the crisis might seem trivial. But word choice is important, and the words we use not only communicate values and attitudes, but they also have the power to influence government policy and people's lives. 
Take the terms "migrant" and "refugee." We often uses these words interchangeably, but there is a critical legal distinction between the two words. The Times writes:
Briefly, a refugee is person who has fled his or her country to escape war or persecution, and can prove it.
The 1951 Refugee Convention, negotiated after World War II, defines a refugee as a person who, "owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality, and is unable to, or owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country."
By international law, governments cannot send refugees back home to where their lives would be in danger. Migrants, however, are not offered the same protections. 
Follow current events for a week by reading your local newspaper, watching TV news coverage, listening to politicians and reading The Times. What language are reporters, TV hosts and politicians using to describe the millions of people around the world fleeing from their homes in search of a better life? Keep track of which words and descriptions are used, and then share your results with your class. What conclusions can you draw about how language is being used? 
 Consider the Helpers - and Think About How You Can Help 
What organizations, companies and individuals are helping, and how?
Read stories in The Times and elsewhere about responses from German soccer teams, former refugees in Vienna and scientists in Milan. 
How can you help?
The Anti-Defamation League has a new guide called Refugees, Reactions and World Response, part of its Table Talk: Family Conversations about Current Events series. Here are the A.D.L.'s suggestions:
Educate others about what's happening by sharing information on social media, having individual conversations or organizing an educational event in the school or community.
Donate money or organize a fundraiser to support organizations that are helping refugees such as: Multifaith Alliance for Syrian Refugees, Jewish Coalition for Syrian Refugees or USA for United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). 
Write a letter to President Obama (or local Congressperson) to encourage them to increase aid or take in more refugees.
Here is more information, as well as links to organizations collecting donations: 
CNN | How You Can Help in the Migrant Crisis
Time | Here's How You Can Help Migrants in Europe
CNBC | Migrant Crisis: How Ordinary People Are Helping Out
 More Teaching Ideas 
For more learning activities and resources, visit our lesson "Tragedy in the Mediterranean: Learning About Europe's Immigration Crisis."
 Additional Teaching Resources 
Anti-Defamation League | Refugees, Reactions and World Response
The Choices Program | Refugee Stories: Mapping a Crisis - Students gain an understanding of the current refugee crisis by mapping data and exploring personal accounts of refugees.
 Standards 
This resource may be used to address the academic standards listed below.
Common Core E.L.A. Anchor Standards
 Reading 

•	 1 Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.
•	 2 Determine central ideas or themes of a text and analyze their development; summarize the key supporting details and ideas.
•	 7 Integrate and evaluate content presented in diverse media and formats, including visually and quantitatively, as well as in words.
•	 8 Delineate and evaluate the argument and specific claims in a text, including the validity of the reasoning as well as the relevance and sufficiency of the evidence.
•	 9 Analyze how two or more texts address similar themes or topics in order to build knowledge or to compare the approaches the authors take.
Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice
 World History 

•	 44 Understands the search for community, stability, and peace in an interdependent world.
•	 45 Understands major global trends since World War II World History Across the Eras.
•	 46 Understands long-term changes and recurring patterns in world history.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

412 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Chicago Daily Herald

October 11, 2015 Sunday

Holocaust museum exhibit explores how refugees influenced Hollywood

BYLINE: By Samantha Nelson, Daily Herald Correspondent

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words

It became a matter of life and death. And jobs.
When the Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933, they prohibited Jews from working in the entertainment industry, forcing thousands to leave for other countries, especially the United States. 
Among them: acclaimed "Some Like It Hot" and "Sunset Boulevard" director Billy Wilder, Oscar-winning composer Franz Waxman and "Casablanca" character actor Peter Lorre.
The mass Jewish exodus to the American entertainment industry is one of many parts of a new exhibit titled "Light & Noir: Exiles and Emigres in Hollywood," which opens at the Illinois Holocaust Museum in Skokie on Sunday, Oct. 11.
Doris Berger, curator of Los Angeles' Skirball Cultural Center, spent two years researching this topic at the library of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and other archives in Southern California. She discovered many books about how refugees from World War II Europe had shaped the golden age of Hollywood. But few museum exhibits had explored the impact of European refugees on Tinseltown.
"Light & Noir: Exiles and Emigres in Hollywood" shows how the conflict in Europe affected a new generation of filmmakers who produced comedies with dark sides and created a new genre of noir, based on American crime writers' stories that integrated techniques popular in German expressionist cinema. Examples of film noir included Wilder's Oscar-nominated "Double Indemnity," starring Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck.
When World War II broke out in 1939, many Jewish émigrés were involved with helping other refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe. The exhibit acknowledges their contributions, including those of producer Carl Laemmle, director Ernst Lubitsch and talent agent Paul Kohner.
"They became sponsors of refugees," Berger said, "and promised they would take care of them in the United States."
The exhibit is divided into eight sections, which include stories of early Hollywood, the exodus from Europe and how Jews found refuge in America.
"Light & Noir" also examines the classic film "Casablanca" as an exile film, a cinematic telling of the real struggle faced by many of the people who worked on it, including Lorre and Conrad Veidt, who was not Jewish but opposed the Nazis and fled with his Jewish wife. The exhibit displays props and original costumes worn by Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman and Paul Henreid. Local actors will perform scenes from "Casablanca" from 2 to 3 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 11, at the exhibit's opening.
The museum is also working with the Wilmette Theatre, which will show comedies, film noir and anti-Nazi films addressed in the exhibit.
In addition, "Light & Noir" covers the postwar period and how McCarthyism targeted Hollywood in a segment that uses trial footage and stories of blacklisted filmmakers, such as the Austrian-born Henreid, who went to Washington to protest.
"That was a decision I felt was important because we were telling a story about America and how it related to Europe, but also about the American film industry," Berger said. "One very hard time was after the Second World War when the House Un-American Activities Committee began to hunt for communists. Some people had to leave the country again or were blacklisted from their jobs in a place they thought was a safe haven."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy of the Margaret Herrick Library, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ©Paramount Pictures German-born actress Marlene Dietrich came to Hollywood in the 1930s and spoke out against the Nazis during World War II. Her 1948 film, "A Foreign Affair," was directed by Billy Wilder, a Jewish filmmaker who fled the Nazis.Courtesy of the Margaret Herrick Library, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ©Paramount Pictures "Double Indemnity," starring Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck, exemplified the emerging film noir genre during World War II. The 1944 drama was directed by Billy Wilder, a Jewish filmmaker who fled the Nazis.Courtesy of the Margaret Herrick Library, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ©Universal International The 1950 film "Harvey," starring Jimmy Stewart, was directed by Henry Koster, who came to Hollywood to escape anti-Semitism.Courtesy of the Margaret Herrick Library, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ©Paramount Pictures German-born actress Marlene Dietrich came to Hollywood in the 1930s and spoke out against the Nazis during World War II. Her 1948 film, "A Foreign Affair," was set in Berlin and directed by Billy Wilder, a Jewish filmmaker who fled the Nazis.Courtesy of the Margaret Herrick Library, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ©Paramount Pictures After fleeing the Nazis, Jewish filmmaker Billy Wilder, left, made his directorial debut with "The Major and the Minor," starring Ginger Rogers.DOUBLE INDEMNITY, 1944/COURTESY OF THE MARGARET HERRICK LIBRARY, ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS AND SCIENCES ©PARAMOUNT PICTURES "Double Indemnity," starring Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck, exemplified the emerging film noir genre during World War II. The 1944 drama was directed by Billy Wilder, a Jewish filmmaker who fled the Nazis.Courtesy of the Margaret Herrick Library, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ©Paramount Pictures After fleeing the Nazis, Jewish filmmaker Billy Wilder made his directorial debut with "The Major and the Minor."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

October 11, 2015 Sunday

Oct. 12 letters to the editor

BYLINE: Letters to the editor, Contra Costa Times © 2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: LETTERS; Opinion

LENGTH: 649 words

Why hasn't the U.S. been doing more?
In his recent letter, "Why hasn't Vatican been doing more," Robert Baker suggested Pope Francis had "a lot of nerve" asking America to help with the current refugee issue when the Vatican hadn't taken in any refugees.
A fact check shows, however, that the Vatican has taken in a refugee family from Damascus, Syria, through St. Anna parish, one of the two parishes located in the Vatican. This family is staying at an apartment on Vatican grounds. 
The other Vatican parish will take on another refugee family as part of the pope's call for Catholic parishes in Europe to offer sanctuary to refugee families. To put these actions in context, the Vatican City State's population is less than 1,000, housed on 110 acres -- about the size of the Diablo Valley College campus. If the United States took in a proportionate share of refugees, our equivalent would amount to well over 1.25 million individuals.
To answer the question, the Vatican is doing something. The better question is, "Why hasn't the United States been doing more?"
Jim Cervantes
Lafayette
Editorial on pension bill disappointing
I am disappointed by your editorial "Gov. Brown should veto stealth attempt to weaken his pension law." The author and I can disagree on the substance of the legislation, but to claim this was a "stealth attempt" is just plain wrong.
I introduced SB 292 last February. Two policy committees made technical amendments, and the final bill has been available to the public since June, allowing two months for additional stakeholder input prior to the floor vote. It is astonishing that giving the public months to review a bill prior to a vote is called "sleazy tactics."
SB 292 allows local governments to use voter-approved taxpayer dollars to support the retirement benefits of police, firefighters and other local workers in those cities and counties where voters specifically voted to do so.
SB 292 respects the intent of local voters and was passed through the normal legislative process with multiple opportunities for review and debate prior to its passage to Gov. Jerry Brown.
Sen. Richard Pan
Sacramento State Senator Pan represents California's 6th District
Having one party in control is a bad idea
This responds to Ernest Hampson's letter, "California's fuel tax is already excessive."
Apparently Hampson believes it would be in our best interest if each and every Democrat were voted out and replaced with a conservative Republican in California's state government.
Upon first consideration, his proffered methodology isn't as ridiculous as it seems. In parliamentarian forms of government, one indeed votes for the political party and not the individual.
However, under further brief scrutiny, Hampson's admonition quickly enters into the nonsensical. Numerous recurring media polls over the past decades have shown that far more Americans, as a whole, identify with Democratic Party ideals than with any other party.
But let's just say that Hampson is able to work his will -- such that our government ultimately attains his idyllic goal of only one party in control, with absolutely no political opposition. If we were to try to find an existing example of such a utopian government model in the world meeting Hampson's desired structure, then one need look no further than that pristine society known as the Republic of North Korea.
Thomas Dauer
Walnut Creek
It is up to voters to take positive action
I agree with Ron Kuhlmann's letter, "Nation must stop these slaughters," in which he said that if we want to stop having mass shootings every time we turn around, we, the silent majority, need to take action.
In addition to contacting our legislators, I suggest you take a look at the rating the National Rifle Association gives to any candidate you consider voting for. If they have a good rating from the NRA, they are not getting my vote -- period!
Candy Cahill
Concord

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

419 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 6, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Germany In A State Of Siege from Muslim 'Refugees'

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Religious Freedom Coalition has issued the following news release: 

  

 The following is excerpted from the UK Daily Mail and describes the chaotic mess that Muslim &ldquo;refugees&rdquo; are causing in Europe. Germany is rethinking its open door policy for these Muslims because of the social destruction is bringing upon that nation. Obama, of course, wants to welcome 200,000 or more Muslims into the United States during the next few years. What is happening in Europe is coming soon to America. Europe is inviting its own destruction at the hands of Muslim fanatics and Obama is engineering chaos and violence in America with his open borders policy.   


 

 David Cameron said Europe must send failed asylum claimants back to their own countries, while European Council president Donald Tusk has warned that millions more migrants are on their way and 'the policy of open doors and windows' must be scrapped

 

 Yesterday, the Mail reported how social workers and women's groups in Giessen wrote a letter to the local state parliament claiming that rape and child abuse were rife in the refugee camp. The allegations were corroborated by Atif over his curry. 'The camp is dangerous,' he agreed. 'Men of different nationalities fight and women are attacked.'

 

 Many women have felt the need to sleep in their clothes&hellip; they won't go to the toilet at night because rapes and assaults have taken place on their way to, or from, there.

 

 Letter written by social workers and women's groups in the Giessen camp

 

 The letter says the camp, far from being a peaceful haven for those fleeing war, is a dangerous melting-pot, where there have been 'numerous rapes and sexual assaults, and forced prostitution'.

 

 There are even reports of children being raped and subjected to sexual assault, it adds.

 

 'Many women have felt the need to sleep in their clothes&hellip; they won't go to the toilet at night because rapes and assaults have taken place on their way to, or from, there. Even in daylight, a walk through the camp is fraught with fear.'

 Help provide a Christmas meal for a Christian refugee child

 Please help refugee children have a real Christmas this year.

 

 Controversially, the letter suggests that in the migrants' culture, women are viewed differently: 'It is a fact that women and children are unprotected. This situation is opportune for those men who already regard women as their inferiors and treat unaccompanied women as &ldquo;fair game&rdquo;.'

 

 Many migrant women have fled here to escape forced marriages or female genital mutilation, which are rife in some African and Middle Eastern countries. 'They believe they have found safety in Germany,' says the letter, 'and realise it's not the case.'

 

 ***

 

 At other camps among the 2,000 that have sprung up in Germany, I hear various lurid complaints about the arrivals, 80 per cent of whom are Muslim, single and male.

 

 At a former U.S. military base housing some 2,000 migrants in Bayernkaserne, on the outskirts of Munich, women's rights groups say there is forced prostitution and rape every day. Men, women and children sleep next to each other in tents and, according to one social worker interviewed on local TV, the camp is 'the biggest brothel in the city' where the price for sex with a female migrant is &euro;10 (&pound;7).

 

 The guards hired from a private company by the German government to provide security at the huge site were found by police to be trafficking drugs, guns and knives among the migrants as well as turning a blind eye to prostitution.

 

 Yards from the camp, I talk to a Somali girl of 18, wearing a hijab. 'We are scared some nights,' she says solemnly, clutching her charity clothes in a white plastic bag.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

422 of 999 DOCUMENTS



Tampa Bay Times

October 4, 2015 Sunday  
Politifact.com Edition

DONALD TRUMP: SYRIAN REFUGEES POTENTIALLY HEADED TO U.S. ARE MOSTLY MEN

BYLINE: JOSHUA GILLIN

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 1396 words

Among Syrian refugees, "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children."
- Donald Trump on Sunday, October 4th, 2015 in an interview on ABC "This Week"
* * *
THE RULING: FALSE
Donald Trump is now against bringing any Syrian refugees to the United States, saying he has concerns about how many able-bodied men seem to be fleeing the war-torn nation.
This Week host George Stephanopoulos asked Trump on Oct. 4, 2015, why he told a New Hampshire crowd he would send refugees back to Syria should he win the presidency. Trump had previously said he would accept some Syrian refugees for humanitarian reasons.
"The migration was strange to me because it seems like so many men," Trump answered. "There aren't that many women, there aren't that many children. It looked like mostly men and they looked like strong men. These looked like physically strong people. And I'm saying, 'Where are all the women? Where are all the children?' " 
Stephanopoulos told Trump that half the refugees are children, which led the billionaire to shift gears and question why the United States was planning to take in so many refugees.
Trump's description of Syrian refugees as not being many children and women didn't sound quite right to us, so we decided to check out it out.
It appears Trump was confusing his talking point over a couple of different issues.
Registered refugees vs. sea arrivals
In the interview, Trump started talking about how he heard America was accepting 3,000 refugees, then 10,000, and "now I hear we want to take in 200,000."
Trump said, "We don't know where they're coming from, we don't know who they are. They could be ISIS. It could be the great Trojan Horse. I mean this could be one of the great Trojan Horses ever since the original."
His campaign did not get back to us to clarify his remarks, but to us and experts we consulted, his answer sounds like he had a different refugee population in mind altogether.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees registers and tracks Syrian refugees in camps spread over several nations, including Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and North African countries. According to numbers we accessed on Oct. 4, the total comes to more than 4 million.
Of those 4 million, 50.3 percent are female, and 51.1 percent are children (boys and girls) 17 years old or younger. In all, only 23.5 percent of refugees across the Middle East and North Africa being counted by the U.N. were men older than 18.
So that settles that argument, right? Not really. Geoffrey Mock, Syrian country specialist for Amnesty International USA, says Trump's anecdote may have been referring to Europe's mass influx of refugees and migrants, not the U.N.-registered refugees in camps that Stephanopoulos was asking about.
"This is a complicated issue, and Trump is right to my mind on a few points, but he's messing up situations, confusing them terribly so his overall point is way off base," Mock said.
Trump likely meant so-called "sea arrivals," refugees and migrants who cross the Mediterranean Sea to continental Europe. The U.N. counts almost 534,000 people who have crossed into Europe this year, with almost 3,000 dying during the journey. To Trump's point, 69 percent of sea arrivals are men, and these are the people dominating headlines about the humanitarian crisis in Europe.
Of those 534,000, about 55 percent of them are from Syria. The rest are from across Asia and Africa, from places like Eritrea, Afghanistan and Sudan. These people are not the same as Syrians in registered refugee camps. But as Trump warned, some do claim to be from Syria and are not, and many are indeed undocumented, experts told PolitiFact.
But the problem with Trump's statement is that none of the majority-male refugees and migrants in Europe are coming to the United States.
Refugee resettlement
We can't confirm where Trump got his 200,000-refugee number, but it may refer to Secretary of State John Kerry's announcement in September that the U.S. would accept 85,000 worldwide refugees in 2016, up from 70,000. In 2017, that number would expand to 100,000, for a total of 185,000 refugees over two years.
To add another wrinkle to Trump's already confusing claims, those won't all be Syrian refugees, but rather refugees from all over the world. Kerry did say some of the expansion was to accommodate Syrians, but there was no indication how many.
The U.N. has said 10 percent, or about 400,000, of the Syrian refugees in camps need to be resettled. President Barack Obama announced that in fiscal year 2016 (through Sept. 30), the United States would accept at least 10,000 refugees from Syria.
Those 10,000 aren't necessarily the type of people who would be ISIS operatives as Trump fears, according to Mock.
"The priorities go to torture survivors, people with serious medical conditions, children and teens on their own, and women and children at risk," Mock said. The people selected undergo screening by state agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security. The process can take years.
That doesn't make for an efficient method of terrorizing the United States, Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow Daveed Gartenstein-Ross said. While it's a legitimate concern that there are ways of beating the screening process, he said, there would be more efficient ways for ISIS cells to reach America than what Trump is fearing.
"Instead of sitting around hoping you win the refugee lottery and then wait years, then pass the screening to get to America, it would be much easier for a terrorist group to send a person through Europe or put them onto an airplane to the United States," Gartenstein-Ross said. "If they could otherwise pass the refugee screening process, they could certainly get on an airplane."
Moreover, the scenario Trump paints doesn't hold up to scrutiny once you take into account that it misrepresents the parties involved.
"When Trump raises concerns about photos of young men among the refugees who have made it to Europe, this has absolutely nothing to do with the Obama-announced resettlement program that will draw upon the population identified by the U.N. as being the most vulnerable among the 4 million Syrians in their refugee camps, all of whom are identified and registered," Mock said.
Our ruling
Trump said "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children" among Syrian refugees.
It appears Trump is conflating two different sets of refugees: Those 534,000 reaching Europe by sea, who are mostly men, and the 4 million Syrians in U.N. refugee camps, most of whom are women and children.
Only about 10,000 refugees in the camps are slated for resettlement in the United States over the next year. Those making the perilous trip to Europe are not.
The priority refugees from this group would be torture survivors, people with serious medical conditions, unaccompanied children and teens, and women and children at risk. Those factors, coupled with background screenings, suggest they would likely not be ISIS operatives waiting to terrorize the United States.
Trump's assessment of the refugee situation is badly mangled. We rate his statement False.
* * *
About this statement:
Published: Sunday, October 4th, 2015 at 6:57 p.m.
Researched by: Joshua Gillin
Edited by: Katie Sanders
Subjects: Foreign Policy, Immigration
Sources: This Week, Interview with Donald Trump, Oct. 4, 2015; Washington Post, "President Obama directs administration to accept at least 10,000 Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year," Sept. 10, 2015; Associated Press, "John Kerry: U.S. to Accept 85,000 Refugees in 2016, 100,000 in 2017," Sept. 20, 2015; The Hill, "Trump: If I win, I'll send Syrian refugees back," Sept. 30, 2015; Washington Post, "Suspicious of Syrian refugees coming to the U.S.? Here's a reality check.," Oct. 2, 2015; European Commission, Asylum statistics, accessed Oct. 4, 2015; United Nations Refugee Agency, "Syria Regional Refugee Response: Inter-agency Information Sharing Portal," accessed Oct. 4, 2015; United Nations Refugee Agency, "Refugees/Migrants Emergency Response: Mediterranean," accessed Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Geoffrey Mock, Amnesty International USA Syrian country specialist, Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow, Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Susan Martin, Georgetown University international migration professor, Oct. 4, 2015

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) PHOTO - Screengrab: Donald Trump says "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children" who make up the refugees from Syria on ABC's "This Week" Oct. 4, 2015. The facts say otherwise.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

423 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

October 3, 2015 Saturday

An Open Letter to U.S. President Barack Obama & Congressional Leaders

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 New York City: The Department Medecins Sans Frontieres has issued the following news release:

  

 The lifejacket pictured here belonged to one of more than 16,000 people rescued on the Mediterranean Sea by Doctors Without Borders/M&eacute;decins Sans Fronti&egrave;res (MSF) teams since May. This lifejacket, and the person who wore it, are symbols not only of a chaotic and dangerous world, but also of the failure of United Nations member states to meet their obligations to care for, extend safe passage to, and consider the asylum claims of those who fear for their safety from violence and oppression. 


 

 People don't abandon their homes because they want to, and they know the risks they will face on their journeys. It is out of desperation that they flee war and torture, misery, poverty, and persecution. While delivering emergency medical care across a wide range of countries and continents, Doctors Without Borders sees firsthand the horrific conditions and suffering that drive people to risk their lives for the chance of a better and safer future. In northern Jordan, for example, which only a lucky few of the Syrians wounded daily in besieged areas in and around Damascus (and elsewhere) can reach to access medical care; in northern Afghanistan, where hundreds of people injured in current fighting are pouring into our trauma center in Kunduz; in the Domeez refugee camp in northern Iraq, where food vouchers were recently cut by two-thirds; and in Kenya, where Somali refugees face the threat of violence and forcible return.

 

 We have also established projects providing health care to refugees in several European Union countries, and we have been running search and rescue operations in the Mediterranean. Our staff therefore has a unique perspective of what happens--physically, psychologically, morally--to people in need when safer countries slam their doors shut, while public policy and debate focus on economic fears, deterrence, and dehumanizing discourse about &ldquo;the other.&rdquo;

 

 This crisis has rightly shocked the world. But the harrowing scenes we have all seen are not confined to Europe and the Middle East. More than 60 million people have been uprooted by conflict and chaos around the world today. From stateless Rohingyas fleeing persecution in Myanmar and adrift on the Andaman Sea, to families driven from their homes by wars in South Sudan and Central African Republic, to people escaping violence and extortion in Central America--we are witnessing a global crisis that is fundamentally challenging the willingness of the international community to uphold its moral responsibilities to other human beings.

 

 The United States has a proud tradition of welcoming refugees, and it has apportioned billions of dollars in aid and assistance to lands around the world affected by armed conflicts. But the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, has urged the US and other attendees of the UN General Assembly in New York to do more, to play a greater, more active, and more compassionate role in the ongoing refugee and migrant crises in Europe, Africa, Asia, and North and Central America. What better backdrop than the world's largest gathering of international leaders for the United States to once more offer additional humanitarian support for people struggling to find safety, increase the number of asylum claims it approves (including for civilians wounded or tortured in conflict), and further ease cumbersome refugee application processes so the most vulnerable can easily apply?

 

 President Obama: You took steps in this direction when you addressed the UN General Assembly this past Monday. But announcing an intent to accept a certain number of refugees falls far short of truly addressing the suffering faced by millions fleeing violence and oppression.

 

 More than simply living up to obligations as a signatory to the 1967 protocol on refugees--and its own proud history of providing shelter to millions of foreign-born men, women, and children--the United States should take additional actions to ensure hope, dignity, and humanitarian assistance for those uprooted by war and strife. A courageous, committed United States can once again rise to the occasion by making its voice heard, showing resolve, and joining the European states that have opened their borders to large numbers of people in need of refuge.

 

 By taking action and showing solidarity, the United States can reaffirm its commitment to refugees the world over and can set an example to other governments that have been unable to come to terms with the challenge at hand. This could be a step towards dismantling recently erected barriers to safe passage, which only drive those forced from their homes to take ever more dangerous routes in search of sanctuary.

 

 The United States should encourage UN member states to ensure that lifesaving and basic needs are met and that humanitarian appeals are fully funded, reversing the shortfalls and cutbacks that have sadly become the norm in humanitarian crises. Beyond this week's meeting in New York, we hope America's political leaders will commit themselves to once again placing the country at the heart of efforts to find solutions to this global crisis, as it was when past generations of immigrants and refugees found shelter and opportunity in this land. The United States can make an essential difference by ensuring safe passage for people driven from their homes and by working to make the need for their harrowing journeys obsolete.

 

 Doctors Without Borders has also encouraged European leaders to do more, and we readily admit that we do not have all the answers. But we see the medical and psychological consequences of the current situation, and we must bear witness to the tragic human impact of a global system that shuts out people seeking to escape violence, poverty, and misery--people who, like many Americans, past, present, and future, seek only a safe place for themselves and their families.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

427 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 24, 2015 Thursday

Obligations and rights under E.U.'s latest plan

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 744 words

ABSTRACT
Answers to some of the legal questions facing asylum seekers after the European Union's adoption of a plan to share the refugee burden among its members. 

FULL TEXT
The flood of migrants and refugees into Europe this year - more than a half million so far, many fleeing the civil war in Syria and other conflict zones - has strained the Continent's ability to absorb them. Leaders argued bitterly for weeks before the European Union could adopt a plan on Tuesday to share the burden among its members.
The plan will require some countries to accept refugees and some people to be relocated whether they like it or not, raising issues of freedom, rights and obligations under international law. Here are answers to some of the questions. 
     Q.     Can refugees choose where they get asylum?
A. To a certain extent, yes. People fleeing war or persecution are free to choose where to seek asylum. Most often it will be a neighboring country or the first safe place they are able to reach, but it could also be a country halfway around the world. Under international law, nations have a legal duty not to turn refugees away; they must be allowed to apply for asylum, even if they have entered a host country's territory illegally.
But the granting of asylum is not guaranteed. It is up to each host country to decide under its own laws whether to allow refugees to stay there permanently and whether they and their children can become citizens, among other issues.
     Q.     Can host countries send refugees elsewhere?
A. Yes, within limits. Nothing in international law prohibits countries from agreeing to distribute refugees among them, as the European Union plans to do, in order to share the burden of accommodating arrivals while their asylum applications are considered.
There is an important caveat, though: Countries are barred from sending refugees to a place where they would not be protected from persecution.
For that reason, it may be hard for the European Union to justify distributing refugees to a country like Hungary that has been actively hostile to accepting them, according to Madeline Garlick, a lawyer for the Migration Policy Institute in Brussels. But Ms. Garlick said there was no bar to sending refugees who are awaiting asylum to be housed in Poland, for example, even if they said they wanted to go to Germany.
     Q.     Are there precedents for distributing refugees this way?
A. When refugees began to reach Australia from Southeast Asia in large numbers, Australia tried to send some of them to Malaysia to be housed. The Australian courts struck down the arrangement because Malaysia did not have a good record of providing protection to refugees, according to James C. Hathaway, a law professor at the University of Michigan.
But he said the European Union's plan was ''absolutely, utterly correct and legal.''
The situation in Europe is complicated by the bloc's system of open internal borders and free movement. A longstanding rule that asylum seekers should be accommodated by the first member country they entered, and can be sent back there if they go elsewhere in the union, has partly broken down under the pressure of the current wave of migrants.
     Q.     Can asylum be denied? What happens then? 
A. If refugees cannot demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in the country they fled, they can be denied asylum and deported. But the refugees are entitled to a full and fair hearing first, and not a swift rejection in what the United Nations last week called ''summary proceedings.''
They can also be denied asylum and lose their protected status as refugees if they are found to have committed war crimes or crimes against humanity.
     Q.     How can refugees receive asylum in the United States?
A. One way is to reach American soil. A person who then claims to be fleeing war or persecution must be allowed to make that case before a court.
Another way, for those who cannot get to America on their own, is to be referred through the United Nations refugee agency. Thousands of such applicants are granted asylum each year after being screened first by the United Nations and then by American officials, a process that generally takes 18 to 24 months. The refugees might not have chosen the United States specifically; the United Nations agency decides where to refer them. Once they are in the United States, these refugees usually get help with housing and job placement, and they can eventually become citizens.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

431 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 23, 2015 Wednesday

How the U.S. can welcome refugees

BYLINE: DAVID MILIBAND

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 934 words

ABSTRACT
Refugees prosper most when they become citizens. They need support to achieve it as soon as they become eligible. 

FULL TEXT
The evidence from Europe in recent weeks is that many citizens are ahead of their governments when it comes to responding to the tide of human misery coming from the Middle East.
Soccer clubs in Germany are setting up training academies. Austrians have turned out at railway stations. In Iceland, more than 15,000 people joined the ''Syria is calling'' Facebook page, many of whom apparently offered to house a refugee.
In the United States, the Obama administration's response has been cautious. While Turkey is hosting approximately 1.9 million refugees from Syria, Jordan has received more than 600,000, and Lebanon over one million, America has taken only just over 1,500 people during four years of the Syrian civil war. 
The president first promised this month to increase the number who will be resettled to 10,000 in the fiscal year beginning in October. This was paltry.
Secretary of State John Kerry has said that the total number of refugees allowed into the country in 2017 would be increased by 30,000, to 100,000, but he didn't specify how many of those would be Syrian. The city of Munich welcomed 25,000 refugees over one weekend.
The mismatch between need and response is all the more striking since the United States has given a home to some three million refugees since 1975. In 2013, they came from 64 different countries.
The experience of the United States Refugee Admissions Program, which is a consortium of federal agencies and nonprofit organizations, offers a number of valuable lessons.
The first is that successful resettlement needs more than big-hearted citizens. It needs an effective combination of resources provided by both the public and the private spheres.
Government needs to set the legislative framework, oversee security checks and provide funding for initial housing, case management and language training. Once these needs are met, resettlement agencies in the United States work within their communities to develop volunteer programs and raise funds to augment the public provision. The success of the refugee admissions program lies in this partnership between the public and the private sectors.
Second, refugees need to be seen for their potential contribution to society. The language of ''burden'' is mistaken. Rather, economic self-sufficiency is the central pillar in successful refugee resettlement.
Resettlement agencies work to help refugees gain employment as soon as possible after their arrival. According to the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement's annual report to Congress for 2013 (the most recent year for which figures are available), the rate of refugees' self-sufficiency at 180 days was 69 percent. A recent survey by the Washington-based Migration Policy Institute found that refugees were, in fact, more likely to be employed than the American-born population.
Third, education for the children of refugees is crucial for effective integration. Many refugee children arrive with little formal education and limited to no English skills. Yet resettlement experience in the United States shows that, with proper support, refugee children are able to thrive at school in a short time.
Data from the International Rescue Committee indicates that 95 percent of refugee students graduating out of the I.R.C.'s New York City Education and Learning program earned a diploma. This is far above the city's baseline average of about 62 percent for English-proficient students.
For many refugees, the chance for their children to get a good education means more to the parents than their own immediate prospects. It is the young who can go on to reap the full benefits of resettlement.
The final lesson is that refugees prosper most when they become citizens. Refugees need support to achieve it as soon as they become eligible. Studies show that naturalization as a United States citizen correlates with higher levels of employment and earnings.
The United Nations has called for the resettlement of 400,000 Syrian refugees over the next several years - which amounts to about 10 percent of those who have been displaced to neighboring countries like Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. Historically, the United States has taken 50 percent of the world's refugees who are eligible for resettlement; that is why the I.R.C. is appealing to America to take 100,000 Syrians next year.
That will require political will and the funding to back it up - both of which most of Europe has conspicuously lacked. European Union leaders meeting this week must put that right.
With more people fleeing conflict and disaster than at any time since World War II, renewed leadership is required. No country is better placed than the United States to offer it.
No one pretends that an enlarged program of resettling refugees will end the humanitarian crisis created by the civil war in Syria. That will require a new wave of political and diplomatic engagement at the source of the conflict. International aid organizations like the I.R.C. see every day the need to provide more help to the neighboring states of Syria that are under huge strain, but refugee resettlement is also a practical way of making a difference for the most vulnerable.
There are very many generous, civic-minded Americans who stand ready to welcome thousands more Syrian refugees to this country. So, too, should the United States government. That effort will not only save precious lives, but will also confirm the nation's commitment to its moral and international responsibilities.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: a former British foreign secretary, is the president and chief executive of the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian aid organization.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

434 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 21, 2015 Monday

U.S. to raise refugee cap to 100,000 annually; 
Syrians likely to benefit from plan to increase visas from 70,000 now

BYLINE: MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

DATELINE: BERLIN 

ABSTRACT
Under the plan, the limit on visas for refugees would be increased to 85,000 in 2016 from 70,000 now. Syrians would be among the beneficiaries. 

FULL TEXT
The Obama administration will increase the number of refugees the United States is willing to accept in 2017 to 100,000, a significant increase over the current annual  cap of 70,000, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Sunday.
The announcement came as Mr. Kerry conferred here with German officials on the wave of migrants that has swamped Europe and met with Syrian refugees who are seeking asylum in Europe.
Under the new plan, the United States limit on annual refugee visas would be increased to 85,000 in 2016. The cap would then rise to 100,000 the following year.
The response still falls far short of the global demand for resettlement from those fleeing the Syrian war, turmoil in Iraq and Afghanistan and other conflicts. In Syria alone, four million people are in U.N. refugee camps outside the country, and hundreds of thousands from that region and Africa have been pouring into Europe. 
The Obama administration has been under pressure to accept more Syrian refugees, and Mr. Kerry said that the United States would explore ways to increase the limit beyond 100,000, while carrying out background checks to ensure that the refugees have not been infiltrated by terrorists.
''We still need to do more, and we understand that,'' Mr. Kerry said in a joint news conference with the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
''This step is in keeping with America's best tradition as a land of second chances and a beacon of hope,'' he said, and added that it ''will be accompanied by additional financial contributions'' for the relief effort.
The response from the United States is unlikely to relieve much of the pressure on European nations, particularly Germany, which remains the most coveted destination for most of the arriving migrants. Other efforts to address the crisis, such as sharing distribution of the migrants among European Union members, have foundered so far, and in the absence of a unified and effective humanitarian and border security policy the migrants have been left to find their own way across the continent.
The United States has only taken in about 1,500 Syrian refugees since the start of the conflict more than four years ago, while Europe has been absorbing hundreds of thousands.
The White House said earlier this month that it would take in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next year, and the administration's decision to raise the ceiling for all refugees worldwide in 2016 will allow for that increase.
Raising the worldwide ceiling to 100,000 in 2017, a senior State Department official, would enable a further increase in Syrian refugees accepted by the United States.
''The idea is to have a steep ramp up,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified under the agency's protocol for briefing reporters.
American officials said that the Syrian refugees accepted by the United States over the next year would be drawn from a list of some 18,000 that the United Nations prepared before the current influx of migrants in Europe.
But beside security and economic concerns, the Obama administration faces a difficult political climate in the midst of a presidential election in which many Republican voters appear to be seeking tougher immigration policies, not more welcoming ones. At the same time, efforts have ramped up to pressure the administration to do more.
Last week more than 20 former senior officials, including some who served in the State Department and Pentagon during the Obama administration, urged the White House to accept 100,000 Syrian refugees.
''We urge that you announce support for a refugees admissions goal of 100,000 Syrian refugees on an extraordinary basis, over and above the current worldwide refugee ceiling of 70,000,'' they wrote in a letter to President Obama and congressional leaders. ''With some four million Syrian refugees in neighboring countries and hundreds of thousands of Syrian asylum seekers in Europe, this would be a responsible exercise in burden sharing.''
David Miliband, the former British foreign secretary who heads the International Rescue Committee, has called on the United States to resettle 65,000 Syrians by the end of 2016.
Mr. Kerry met with his German counterpart at Villa Borsig, a palatial German guesthouse overlooking a small lake. Later, with reporters in attendance, they gathered with a group of Syrian refugees, who asked not to be identified by name because they still have friends or relatives living in Syria.
Asked by Mr. Kerry why there had been such a large surge in migrants in recent weeks, the Syrians said they despaired of being able to come home and that life in refugee camps was becoming harder as food rations were cut back .
''The reason people are coming now is because they gave up hope completely,'' said one woman. ''We have no hope we will ever live in Syria anymore.''
''Are not five years enough for the international community to intervene, especially the United States?'' said a man.
Asked at his news conference why the United States could not accept more Syrian refugees more quickly, Mr. Kerry said that budgetary constraints and vetting requirements established after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks limited the scope of the response.
''We are doing what we know we can manage immediately,'' he said. But he did not rule out the possibility that more might eventually be done.
Mr. Obama has the authority to increase the refugee cap, but Congress will need to approve the additional funding. State Department officials have said that it cost $1.1 billion to accept and resettle 70,000 refugees in 2015.
Mr. Kerry's visit came as thousands more migrants were waiting at Germany's doorstep in Austria either to enter Germany for settlement or pass through it to get to other countries in northern Europe. On Sunday, nearly 10,000 more asylum-seekers who had pushed through Hungary overnight and had been bused to camps near Austria's eastern border were poised to move on to Germany. Many of the migrants have identified themselves as Syrians.
In recent weeks, so many migrants have passed into Germany that local officials are scrambling to find ways to receive and accommodate them.
The German government, which expects as many as a million migrants to arrive this year, has been pressing for a European solution to the problem, including a plan to more fairly distribute the arrivals among European Union countries. Interior ministers plan to meet Tuesday, and leaders Wednesday, to try to break a logjam over the plan.
The Department has previously said that not all of the additional refugees who would be taken in under a higher cap would be Syrians. Some will be Africans who have been threatened by human rights abuses, including some from the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain has pledged to take in up to 20,000 Syrian refugees over the next five years, but only those still living in that region.
Some leading lawmakers, including Senator Patrick K. Leahy of Vermont, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who is running for president, have urged the White House to take in significantly more Syrian refugees. But some Republican critics have asserted that accepting larger numbers of Syrians could pose security risks.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

440 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Contra Costa Times (California)

September 18, 2015 Friday

Sept. 19 letters to the editor

BYLINE: Letters to the editor © 2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: LETTERS; Opinion

LENGTH: 1104 words

ISIS members could slip in with refugees
We must be very careful whom we bring into this country.
From what is shown on the news, most of those refugees are young men. It would be very easy for ISIS members or potential members to get into this country because of our very lax immigration policy.
Relatives and friends living in Germany, Austria and Italy told me that these are not like the type of refugees who entered the United States after World War II. 
These Middle Eastern refugees are uneducated and will probably strain our welfare system. They would do much better if they were taken in by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Jordan and United Arab Emirates.
Dawn Magnussen
Walnut Creek
U.S. helped create the refugee crisis
Yes, the United States should play a significant role in alleviating the refugee crisis in Europe.
The United States helped create this catastrophe by invading Iraq, which led to the creation of ISIS, which led to ... which led to ....
When will the citizens of this country take control and stop the sick military-industrial complex: Department of Defense, and all of its contractors who profit from wars and other injustices? War is insanity.
Since we, the United States, did it, we own the consequences. Of course, those who profited from the invasion -- and its subsequent repercussions -- won't have to pay for it. We the people will have to. And we should, because we allowed President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and their other war-criminal cronies, to invade.
Regardless, we are all God's children, and those suffering over there are our brothers and sisters, and we have to help them.
John O'Neill
Pleasanton
Heart says yes, but mind is not so sure
One could argue that if this nation took a significant role in this crisis that it would be seen as being hypocritical since there has been much said against immigrants coming into our nation from the southern half of our own continent.
One could argue the semantics of the two words, immigrant and refugee. What is the fine line between the two? Many of the immigrants crossing our southern border through Mexico are doing so to seek a better life than they had in their native land.
The refugees who are flooding Europe are fleeing the civil war of Syria, persecution because some of them are Christians, or just the oppressive nature of the radical interpretation of Islam under ISIS. They, too, just seek a better life for themselves.
We all know that in the final analysis, it always comes down to the money question. My heart says yes we should give as much help as we can to the refugees, but my mind wonders about the details.
Morris Soublet
Hayward
Refugee crisis is not our problem at all
We absolutely should not play a role in the refugee crisis.
An influx of immigrants from an area dominated by ISIS is a very real danger to national security. Internet stories report that at least 70 percent of the "immigrants" are men of fighting age -- perfect for terrorists to infiltrate the country as "refugees."
President Barack Obama says they will vet the 10,000 he wants to bring in, screening out terrorists. Just how is that to be done? The volume itself is overwhelming. Does he think he can find records from this war-ravaged and backward country to assure the entrants are not ISIS in disguise?
The refugee problem in Europe is not our problem. Even the Europeans are now having second thoughts about allowing these thousands to cross their borders.
Perhaps Obama feels guilty (I doubt it) for pulling troops out of Iraq and providing a fertile field for ISIS to grow. Whatever his reason, he should not permit even one "refugee" into our country.
His first responsibly is to protect the citizens of this country.
Ken Hambrick
Walnut Creek
They should fight for freedom at home
Under no circumstances should the United States play a significant role in alleviating the refugee crisis in Europe.
In my opinion, those people are not refugees -- they are invaders. The largest majority of them are healthy looking young men. They should remain in their countries and fight for their freedom.
Their invasion to those naive countries welcoming them with open arms is just tragic, sad and pathetic. Those countries will regret allowing these invaders to come into their lands.
The United States has already admitted more than 3 million Muslims into our country since 9/11. Do we need more of them?
We are broke! We give money, food and who knows what else to countries all around the world -- even countries that hate us and want nothing but our destruction. Tell me, then, why should we help alleviate the invasion crisis in the European countries when they are happy welcoming them?
Mary S. Shipley
Concord
Refugees should go to Muslim countries
Let's spend our efforts, time and taxes to help Syrian refugees go to Muslim countries where they can share their religious values.
Nineteen young men of the Muslim faith enjoyed freedom in America, including training to fly airplanes. Instead of thanking us for our generous help, they flew three huge airplanes, loaded with gasoline and passengers, into the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon.
Some 3,000 people were murdered that day. More were killed on 9/11 than the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor, Dec. 7, l941.
I watched reruns on TV recently about the 9/11 attack and remembered the Boston Marathon attack by two brothers of the Muslim faith. As Russian refugees, these two brothers were assisted with welfare, food stamps and a free education.
The FBI and local police are overwhelmed with potential terrorists in our country to watch and arrest.
Al Paltin
Orinda
It is impossible to vet these refugees
The answer to your question is an emphatic "no!"
The wealthy Gulf nations are not accepting any refugees. Six countries that speak the same language, belong to the same ethnic group, share the same religion and much of the same culture -- and that are among the wealthiest countries in the world -- have no room at all for their fellow Arabs.
Europe staggers under the growing weight of Muslim immigration and supremacist attitudes. This is not a European or American problem.
It would be one thing if these people would be like traditional immigrants to America; people who wanted to assimilate and be Americans. We have only to look at the family of the Boston Marathon bombers. They took massive amounts of welfare for years, then repaid our generosity by terrorist murder and maiming.
How many terrorists might we be admitting into the United States? These people are impossible to vet properly. Admitting vast numbers of refugees would be insane.
Andrew Fine
Concord

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved

442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 17, 2015 Thursday

Charities urge U.S. to open its doors; 
Taking tens of thousands of Syrian refugees would be a bolder step, they say

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 737 words

ABSTRACT
Major charitable aid groups, seeing disarray in Europe's response to the refugee crisis, urged the Obama administration to accept many thousands. 

FULL TEXT
Executives from leading American aid groups, watching the muddled international response to the migrant crisis with dismay, have called on the United States government to multiply many times over its recent commitment to take 10,000 displaced Syrians in the next year.
''I think if the United States came out and said we would take 100,000, that would change things,'' said Carolyn Miles, president and chief executive of Save the Children, in a telephone news conference on Tuesday with colleagues from groups including Mercy Corps, Oxfam America, CARE U.S.A. and Physicians for Human Rights. 
Paul O'Brien, a vice president for policy and campaigns at Oxfam, said, ''This is fast becoming a legacy issue for the Obama administration, and they are not doing enough.''
Mr. O'Brien drew a numerical comparison to Lebanon, where by some calculations a quarter of the population is now made up of Syrians who have fled their country. The war, which has lasted four and a half years, has sent roughly four million Syrians into neighboring countries - and now increasingly to Europe. Half of them are younger than 18.
If the United States followed Lebanon, Mr. O'Brien said, ''we could absorb the entire population of Syria three times over.''
The Obama administration is under intense pressure to play a more assertive role in resettling families displaced by Middle East mayhem, many of them from Syria.
The crush has threatened to overwhelm Europe's abilities, and governments of the European Union are engulfed in fractious disputes over how to proceed.
Last week administration officials said the United States would increase the number of Syrian refugees it accepts to 10,000 in the fiscal year beginning in October from fewer than 2,000 this year. That is still a small fraction of the hundreds of thousands seeking asylum in Europe. Germany alone has said it expects 800,000 this year.
The Obama administration's announcement caused a range of reactions in the United States, reflecting how the refugee issue has become part of a broader politically polarized debate on immigrants and entanglements in foreign conflicts.
Advocates for refugees said it was an absurdly small increase compared with the large numbers of Vietnamese and Cubans that the United States resettled in decades past.
Others have expressed concerns over inadvertently allowing Islamic extremists or others with malevolent intent to enter via a Syrian refugee surge.
The charity executives rejected those concerns, pointing to the stringent vetting required for admittance to the United States.
Andrea Koppel, vice president of global engagement and policy at Mercy Corps, said it was only a matter of time before desperate refugees fleeing turmoil in the Middle East, North Africa and Afghanistan found ways to reach the United States.
''The fact is this is a geopolitical crisis,'' she said. ''Our plea to the American public is: 'Let's not wait. Let's open our doors.'''
Rather than admitting 10,000 Syrians, she said, ''it should be tens upon tens of thousands.''
Donna McKay, executive director of Physicians for Human Rights, said: ''The crisis we're facing is not one in which we're lacking information. It's about political will and failure to act.''
Nick Osborne, vice president for international programs at CARE U.S.A., said it was ''important to look beyond the numbers'' of displaced people now leaving their ravaged homelands at an ever-increasing pace.
''These are people who have come from middle-class families,'' he said. ''These are people who could be contributors.''
Suzanne Akhras, founder and director of the Syrian Community Network, which has been helping resettle displaced Syrians in the Chicago area, also played down concerns about refugees.
''These are not people who are going to be extremists,'' she said. ''They want to come here for a better life.''
The executives also said they had seen huge increases in financial donations in the nearly two weeks since the photograph of Aylan Kurdi, a drowned 3-year-old Syrian boy on a Turkish beach, commandeered much of the world's attention.
Ms. Miles, of Save the Children, said that in the first eight months of 2015, her organization had raised $200,000 for its Syria work, but that ''in the last few weeks, we've raised $1 million.''

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

448 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

September 16, 2015 Wednesday  
Regional Edition

Aid groups criticize U.S. plan on Syrian refugees

BYLINE: Hugh Naylor

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: BEIRUT

BEIRUT - Prominent international aid groups called on the Obama administration Tuesday to accept more Syrian refugees than it has pledged and to take a stronger role in diplomatic efforts to end the country's devastating civil war.
In unusually firm remarks, senior officials from several humanitarian organizations criticized as inadequate a plan by the White House to allow in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next fiscal year. The officials said the number should be at least 100,000.
Global attention has shifted again to the four-year-old conflict because of the unprecedented number of Syrians streaming into Europe. At the same time, the aid groups have been receiving increased donations, which the officials partly attributed to shock over a widely circulated image of a drowned Syrian refugee boy whose body washed up on a Turkish beach this month. 
"We're calling on the president and Congress to do more," said Carolyn Miles, president of Save the Children. She said the United States should admit "tens of thousands" of Syrians.
Paul O'Brien, Oxfam America's vice president for policy and campaigns, said the White House refugee proposal does not come "close to what the U.S. should be committing to."
"This 10,000 is basically the number we could do in our sleep," he said.
He compared that figure to the response from some European countries that have taken in far more Syrians. For instance, Germany, a country of more than 80 million people, has indicated it could admit 800,000 refugees, many of them from Syria.
The officials - from aid groups including Mercy Corps, Care USA and the Syrian Community Network - made the remarks during a conference call with journalists.
On Friday, State Department spokesman John Kirby defended the administration against criticism of its plan.
"This country, the United States, resettles more refugees from around the world by a factor of 40,000 than any other country in the world," he said.
He also suggested that officials could decide to increase the number of Syrians allowed into the country. "There may be more decisions coming down the road," he said.
Since the start of the Syrian conflict in 2011, the United States has taken in nearly 1,600 refugees from the war-torn country.
Humanitarian organizations regularly call on the United States and other countries to increase aid programs for displaced Syrians, including the more than 4 million refugees who reside largely in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan.
But the groups are rarely so vocal over political matters such as immigration policy and international diplomacy.
The officials said a U.S.-backed nuclear deal with Iran, reached in July after protracted negotiations, has created more goodwill to end a war that has killed 250,000 people and emboldened the Islamic State and other extremist groups.
Iran backs the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, while the United States has backed moderate rebels and supports diplomacy aimed at eventually removing the Syrian leader from power. Previous diplomatic initiatives to resolve the conflict have failed in large part because of differences over Assad.
O'Brien, of Oxfam, said the Obama administration should "double down" on diplomatic efforts, saying the nuclear accord has created a "different world in the Middle East."
The humanitarian officials said donations to their organizations have increased since the publication of photos of 3-year-old Aylan Kurdi, the Syrian boy who drowned along with his brother and mother this month after their Greece-bound boat sank.
"We have definitely seen a change since the tragic photo of the little boy," said Miles, the Save the Children president.
Since the beginning of September, she said, her organization has received $1 million from U.S. donors. From January through August, total donations reached only about $200,000, she said.
hugh.naylor@washpost.com
Carol Morello in Washington contributed to this report.
Read The Post's coverage on the global surge in migration
Ahmet Sik
Getty Images
A refugee waits at a bus terminal in Istanbul for transportation to the Turkish-Greek border. (Ahmet Sik/Getty Images)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

451 of 999 DOCUMENTS


St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Refugee or migrant? Here's a primer

BYLINE: By Katie Kather kkather@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: RAMSEY COUNTY; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro; State

LENGTH: 594 words

Minnesota can expect trickle of Syrians
Minnesota has a long history of resettlement of refugees, dating back to World War II, according to the Minnesota Department of Human Services.
Now, tens of thousands of people from the Middle East and Africa are seeking safety in Europe at great risk. Many of them are from Syria; many will make their way to America.
President Barack Obama announced last week that the United States plans to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the coming year. 
So what does this all mean for Minnesota, and what is a refugee anyway?
WHAT IS A REFUGEE?
The terms refugee and migrant have been used interchangeably to describe the crisis in Europe, but are they the same?
A refugee is someone who "owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality, and is unable to, or owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country," according to the 1951 Refugee Convention from the United Nations.
Basically, refugees are those forced to leave their country to escape war or persecution.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees defines a migrant as someone who chooses to move in order to improve the future prospects of themselves and their families.
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN SYRIA?
Syria is in its fifth year of a brutal civil war that has led to 4 million Syrians seeking refuge in Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and Egypt. More than 11 million Syrians have been internally displaced, meaning they can no longer live in their homes, but still live in the country. Now, many Syrian refugees are fleeing to Europe.
The UNHCR says that a quarter of Syria's schools and half the country's hospitals have been destroyed in the conflict. The situation has been called the worst humanitarian disaster of our time.
The Minneapolis-based international nonprofit American Refugee Committee works in Syria, responding to violence against women and girls, providing water, sanitation and hygiene infrastructure and support the distribution of emergency items.
WHAT REFUGEES LIVE IN MINNESOTA?
Among the groups that have made Minnesota home are Bhutanese, Hmong from Laos, Iraqis, Karen from Burma, Liberians and Somalis. Last year alone, about 2,000 refugees were settled in Minnesota, according to the Department of Human Services.
Minneapolis is home to more Somalis than any other U.S. city and St. Paul has the largest Hmong community in the United States, according to Richfield-based resettlement agency Arrive Ministries.
HOW DO REFUGEES END UP HERE?
Arrive Ministries outlines a 13-step process that all refugees must go through before they come to the U.S. http://arriveministries.org/who-we-serve /about-refugees-asylees/the-refugee-process/).
In short, each refugee who comes to the United States goes through a series of agencies including the UNHCR, the U.S. Embassy, the State Department, the FBI and the CIA.
All refugees are then resettled through an agency that has a contract with the federal government to provide basic services for refugees during their first 90 days on American soil.
In Minnesota, those agencies are:
-- International Institute of Minnesota;
-- Arrive Ministries;
-- Minnesota Council of Churches Refugee Services;
-- Catholic Charities Diocese of St. Paul Migration and Refugee Services/Catholic Charities Diocese of Winona Refugee Resettlement Program;
-- Lutheran Social Services.
Katie Kather can be reached at 651-228-5006. Follow her at twitter.com/ktkather .

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A man runs away from Hungarian police spraying water on refugees at a border crossing into Hungary, near Horgos, Serbia, on Sept. 16, 2015. Small groups of refugees continued to sneak into Hungary on Wednesday, a day after the country sealed its border with Serbia and began arresting people trying to breach the razor-wire barrier, while a first group arrived in Croatia seeking another way into the European Union. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 St. Paul Pioneer Press
All Rights Reserved

455 of 999 DOCUMENTS


USA TODAY

September 14, 2015 Monday  
FINAL EDITION

America should do its part, accept more Syrian refugees

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 520 words

The sheer size of the Syrian refugee crisis is staggering. Roughly 11 million people, almost half the nation's population, have fled their homes. About 4 million have left their country. And 250,000 have died in Syria's civil war since 2011. 
This qualifies as a crisis on the order of the Ethiopian famine of 1984, which led to a worldwide humanitarian response (as well as the pop anthem We are the World). By some accounts, it is the worst refugee crisis since World War II.
Yet in contrast to the Ethiopian famine, the fall of Saigon or even routine outbreaks of violence in Central America, the United States has done relatively little in response. So far, it has taken just 1,500 Syrian refugees.
America has a  strategic interest, not to mention a moral purpose, in significantly raising those numbers. U.S. interests in a volatile region would be undermined if the crisis destabilized nations such as Turkey (1.9 million Syrian refugees), Lebanon (1.1 million) and Jordan (630,000).
A U.S. increase to 70,000 would be a reasonable start. It would only be a small fraction of those fleeing. But in concert with other nations, it would make a dent. The European Union is urging its members to take 160,000.
The United States currently accepts 70,000 refugees a year from the entire world. Doubling that number for a discrete period would not significantly change the USA's overall immigration policies, which lead to more than 1 million people per year being granted residency status. In the long run, it would likely help the economy, as those fleeing Syria are relatively well-educated.
In theory, President Obama could increase the number of Syrian refugees by as much as he saw fit. But because additional funding would be needed to process, screen and place the increased numbers of refugees, Congress would have to agree. That's the hard part. While Obama's proposal last week to admit an additional 10,000 might seem paltry, even that number will generate considerable opposition.
Congress killed bipartisan immigration reform plans in both the Bush and Obama administrations. What's more, many lawmakers believe that refugees from Syria -- which is partly controlled by the  murderous thugs who call themselves the Islamic State -- are more apt to be terrorists than those from elsewhere.
In reality, all refugees undergo extensive background checks before being allowed to settle in the U.S. That process, which can take as long as two years, ought to be expedited to some degree. But it still is an effective way to root out potential threats.
The U.S. has taken refugees and lawful immigrants from other countries -- Iraq, Pakistan and Nigeria, to name a few -- where radical Muslim groups are present. Nearly all have been model members of their communities, happy to be in a place where they can live and work in peace.
The best way to stem the flow of refugees would be to end to the war in Syria. But with that unlikely to happen anytime soon, the next best approach is to manage the crisis as well as possible. And that entails the United States doing its part to take in a reasonable share of desperate people. 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Angelos Tzortzinis, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

468 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 11, 2015 Friday

Who's responsible for the refugees?

BYLINE: STEVE HILTON

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 950 words

ABSTRACT
Instead of blaming Europe for the crisis, the U.S. can start solving the problem at its source. 

FULL TEXT
Policy paralysis over the refugee crisis is convulsing Europe: Of course we want to help, but if we're too generous, more will come.
As a former adviser to the British prime minister, David Cameron, I   understand the pressure politicians face from citizens demanding controlled immigration and tightly policed borders. As the son of immigrants welcomed into Britain from Communist Hungary, I feel a strong moral instinct to extend a similar welcome to others fleeing their homelands in even worse circumstances. But still. Before condemning European politicians, aid agencies or anyone else, let's try to cut through the complexity with some simple human truths.
First, stop blaming Hungary. For months before this crisis hit the headlines in America, my hometown, Szeged, was the front line. Just days before I was there on a family vacation in July, 700 refugees were discovered in the woods where we used to play as children. My cousins told me, outraged, about the seemingly unending flow of new arrivals stealing fruit from their friends' trees and vegetables from their gardens; urinating and defecating in public places throughout the town; clogging up public services. 
You could say: How xenophobic. Or instead: How would you feel if your daily life was being made intolerable while the authorities, thanks to European Union rules about registering refugees, seemed unable to restore order? Hungary is small and relatively poor. It's a little unfair, to put it mildly, to condemn Hungary for callous - even racist - treatment of migrants when those doing the condemning bear far more responsibility for the crisis. Yes, America, I'm talking about you.
And here's the second simple truth. While we can argue forever about the causes of conflict in the Middle East, it is impossible to ignore the impact of American foreign policy on what's happening in Europe. It was shocking to see an ''expert'' from the Council on Foreign Relations quoted on Saturday saying that the situation is ''largely Europe's responsibility.'' How, exactly? The Iraq invasion (which could reasonably be described as ''largely America's responsibility'') unleashed a period of instability and competition in the region that is collapsing states and fueling sectarian conflict.
European leaders wanted, years ago, to intervene directly in Syria in order to check President Bashar al-Assad's cruelty; the United States didn't. You can understand why - I wouldn't for one second question the judgment of American political leaders that their country was reluctant to participate in another military conflict.   But at least acknowledge the consequences of nonintervention: the protracted Syrian civil war, the emergence of a lawless territory ripe for exploitation by the sick zealots of the Islamic State, and the resulting flood of millions of displaced people.
So it's a bit rich for American commentators to lecture Europeans when part of the reason the refugees are arriving on Europe's doorstep is American foreign policy. It's great that the United States is by far the largest provider of humanitarian assistance to Syrians, but America is bigger than Europe, and wealthier. Why should Europe be expected to take around a million refugees practically overnight and the United States, hardly any?
There's one more simple truth to acknowledge. The ideal number of refugees is zero. Today's crisis will worsen in the years ahead unless we deal with the causes, not just the symptoms. That means serious and sustained action to create free societies people actually want to stay in. Places with a market economy, property rights, the rule of law, a free press, an independent judiciary and accountable democratic processes.
This is America's chance to say, ''We have a moral responsibility to help. So the United States will welcome as many refugees as Europe: Not just thousands; hundreds of thousands. But there has to be a bargain. We cannot keep doing this. So we will now embark on a new effort to bring the basics of a decent life to the world's hot spots.''
There are practical steps we could take to entice leaders in the Middle East to open up their economies and provide greater rights and freedoms. The Oxford economist Paul Collier has proposed a plan for ''job havens'' bordering Syria, using an existing, but empty industrial zone minutes from the largest refugee camp in Jordan, where a future Syrian economy could be incubated, providing both an income and an incentive to stay for millions of displaced people.
The economist Hernando de Soto, backed in part by the United States Agency for International Development, has cataloged the vast untapped value of the informal economy in countries like Egypt, Tunisia and Algeria. If these assets were formalized, people across the region could own property, grow businesses and develop the desire to stay and build stable societies. We should put pressure on their rulers to implement the necessary legal reforms by cutting aid payments until they do it.
The Obama administration led the establishment of the Open Government Partnership, a well-designed effort to promote public sector accountability worldwide. Now let's give it real teeth: make trade deals and market access contingent on progress toward its goals. We have plenty of leverage if only we'd use it to pursue long-term structural reform.
Yes, it's a complicated world. But that's no excuse to do nothing. For America to lead in this way is not about imposing ''Western values'' on the rest of the planet. It's much more basic than that. It's about treating every human being with humanity.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: is co-founder and chief executive of Crowdpac and a former senior adviser to Prime Minister David Cameron.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

472 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

September 11, 2015 Friday

commentary; 
Refugees aren't America's problem

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 542 words

Among the benefits of Donald Trump's proposed immigration moratorium is that we won't have to keep importing hordes of Third World "refugees," such as the ones currently swarming across Europe. 
For decades, the United States has taken in far more refugees than the entire rest of the world combined.
 Fazliddin Kurbanov was brought to the U.S. as a refugee in 2009, joining hundreds of other Uzbeks in Boise, Idaho. He came with his wife and young child, his sister and his two ailing parents.
 So grateful was Kurbanov to America for rescuing his entire family from "persecution" that he spent the next few years conspiring to commit jihad against us.
 Last month, Kurbanov was convicted of various terrorism charges, based on his possession of Tannerite, ammonium nitrate, bullets and aluminum powder, as well as his stated intention, in conversations recorded by the FBI, to bomb military bases in Idaho and Texas.
 A few years ago, the FBI realized we'd let in scores of Iraqi terrorists as "refugees," including Mohanad Shareef Hammadi and Waad Ramadan Alwan. On FBI surveillance tapes, the men bragged about having used a sniper rifle to kill American soldiers north of Baghdad, blowing up Bradley tanks and building more than a dozen bombs for use against U.S. troops.
 After being happily "resettled" into public housing in Bowling Green, Kentucky, they continued their war against America, including one specific Army captain.
 The Boston Marathon bombers, Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, had received asylum in the U.S., before launching the 2013 attacks that left four dead and thousands injured in Boston.
 The entire extended Tsarnaev family got asylum based on Russia's brutal crackdown on Chechnyan Muslims.
 Hundreds of "refugees" from Somalia and elsewhere, who have been granted fast-track U.S. citizenship because of their sworn fear of persecution in their home countries, seem to forget all about that "credible fear" as soon as the time comes to go back and engage in jihad.
 To be sure, not all our refugees are Muslim terrorists. Some are Hutu terrorists. A few years ago, we took in a genocidal Rwandan, Beatrice Munyenyezi, as a "refugee."
 Only after Munyenyezi was granted citizenship did we find out that, as the federal court put it, she had "personally participated in the mass killing of innocent women, men and children merely because they were called Tutsi."
 Although her American citizenship was revoked, Munyenyezi remains a legal U.S. resident, whom we are supporting in prison for the next decade.
 For at least half a century, the U.S. has taken in the vast majority of the world's refugees. Isn't it somebody else's turn?
 If our current immigration policies aren't stopped, this country will soon be nothing more than another failed Latin American state.
 I note that our allies, Japan and Israel, aren't taking in any Syrian refugees. Japan is pretty far away, but Israel is even closer to Syria than Sweden is. Evidently, Japan and Israel aren't as gung-ho about destroying themselves as our European friends are. Donald Trump's soaring popularity suggests that America may not be ready to commit suicide yet, either.
 --Ann Coulter is a lawyer, conservative social and political commentator, author and syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The State Journal- Register
All Rights Reserved

473 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 10, 2015 Thursday

China keeps migrants at arm's length; 
Letter From China

BYLINE: BY DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: BEIJING 

ABSTRACT
China avoids helping with humanitarian crises that it believes are not of its own making, and it blames the United States and Europe for the migration crisis. 

FULL TEXT
Earlier this year, as war-dazed Syrians fled to Europe and Rohingya ran from murder in Myanmar, European diplomats told their Chinese counterparts it might be a good time to talk about migration. There was a perfect opportunity: the 17th E.U.-China summit meeting in Brussels in June.
The Chinese demurred and suggested instead talking about the safer topic of disability, said a European diplomat familiar with the situation. 
The message: China is reluctant to get involved in efforts to solve humanitarian crises that it believes are not of its own making.
Money tells the same, hands-off, story.
Since 2012, China has contributed $14 million in humanitarian aid to help solve ''civil unrest'' in Syria, about 0.1 percent of the $14 billion donated by countries and organizations around the world, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. That puts the world's second-largest economy, with the world's biggest currency reserves, in 32nd place, behind Japan (ninth, having contributed $445 million with $24 million more pledged).
Although China sent ships to evacuate its own citizens caught up in the fighting in Libya in 2011 and this year in Yemen, it believes the migrant crisis sweeping Europe is mostly the fault, and responsibility, of the United States and Europe, for trying to foment political change in countries such as Syria and Libya.
''A part is due to a minority of so-called 'democrats' in those countries, who are determined to subvert stable authoritarian rule there,'' Tian Wenlin, a scholar at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, wrote in People's Daily.
''The main reason, however, is that the United States and Europe took the opportunity to carry out 'regime change,''' Mr. Tian wrote.
''In truth, the U.S. and Europe's tyrannical foreign policy is both frightening and stupid,'' he continued. ''It has caused massive disasters in western Asia and northern Africa that are now boomeranging on Europe and the U.S.''
But China does have responsibilities, as a party to both United Nations' refugee agreements, the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol. There are a quarter of a million Chinese refugees and asylum seekers around the world, while about 300,000 people from other countries are refugees in China, according to U.N.H.C.R., the United Nations' refugee agency.
Asked if China had received requests from governments or organizations to assist with the migrant crisis in the Middle East and Europe, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't answer directly, saying instead, ''China has noted the recent immigration issue.''
''Appropriately settling the immigration issue is related to the economic development, social stability and integration process in Europe,'' the ministry statement said. ''Striking a blow against illegal immigration activities and resolving humanitarian crises is the common wish of international society.''
''Immigration questions are complicated and sensitive. Their roots lie in uneven development and regional instability,'' it added. ''We believe Europe and relevant countries can unite and respond to this major challenge and appropriately solve related issues to maintain regional security and stability.''
In any case, the chatter on social media suggests that many Chinese oppose taking in Syrians, who make up 53 percent of the thousands fleeing to Europe.
Another 14 percent are from Afghanistan, while 7 percent are from Eritrea and most of the rest are from other African countries, according to the U.N.H.C.R.
So far Chinese are ''overwhelmingly against the idea, saying China is not responsible for turbulence in the Middle East, many Chinese people are still living in poverty and that the refugees won't want to come to China anyway,'' the Hong Kong Free Press reported.
But some disagreed. One commenter, frankkee, on the popular Tianya forum noted that China and Israel's friendship began over the haven China offered to Jews fleeing Hitler, and that much of America's talent came from the millions of refugees from Europe.
''Taking in some refugees from the Middle East,'' frankkee wrote, ''will certainly do more good than harm.''

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

477 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 10, 2015 Thursday

Fox News Exploits European Refugee Crisis To Stoke Islamophobic Fear That Muslim Refugees May Be Terrorists

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Matters for America Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 Europe Facing Refugee Crisis As Asylum Seekers Flee Conflicts, Poverty, And Persecution. Time magazine reported that "more than 380,000 migrants and refugees have landed on Europe's southern shores," this year, creating a refugee crisis as asylum seekers flee "persecution, poverty, and conflicts": 


 

     In recent weeks, chaos at border crossings and train stations, squalid conditions in makeshift refugee camps and a heartbreaking photograph of a drowned Syrian toddler have all helped bring Europe's refugee crisis into the global spotlight. According to the UNHCR, more than 380,000 migrants and refugees have landed on Europe's southern shores so far this year, up from 216,000 arrivals in the whole of 2014. They are fleeing persecution, poverty and conflicts that rage beyond the continent's borders, but not all manage to reach safety - this year alone, 2,850 people have drowned in the Mediterranean. That hasn't stopped people making desperate bids to reach Europe though. Here's what to know about why the continent is facing one of its toughest challenges in decades.

 

     [...]

 

     A number of spiraling crises in the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, the Central African Republic, Ukraine and Iraq have partly driven the crisis, but more than half of all refugees worldwide in 2014 came from just three countries: Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia.

 

     Since Syria's civil war began in 2011, more than 4 million Syrians have sought shelter in neighboring countries and another 7.6 million have been forced from their homes but remain displaced within Syria. An increase in attacks by President Bashar Assad's forces and the growth of ISIS are fueling the movement, but people are partly fleeing now because it's become clear that the conflict is unlikely to be resolved any time soon. [Time, 9/9/15]

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

478 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

September 10, 2015 Thursday

Bill O'Reilly Blames Obama And Troop Withdrawal From Iraq For Mass Migration Of Syrian Refugees

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: Lahore 


 Washington: Matters for America Organization has issued the following news release:

  

 As you know, millions of refugees are fleeing the Middle East and Africa, going to Europe, asking for asylum. There is no way to stop this mass migration, which will change the European continent dramatically. Most of these people are Muslims who are simply trying to survive. The world was stunned when a picture of a 3-year-old Syrian boy was published. He drowned in the Mediterranean Sea as his family tried to reach the Greek island of Kos. The boy's mother and 5-year-old brother also drowned. 


 

 Now, this is happening because the U.S.A. and Western Europe retreated from the Middle East. Once President Obama removed all American forces from Iraq, ISIS moved in and chaos broke out. The president has never, never acknowledged that his policy of disengagement has led to thousands of people being murdered and the catastrophe we are now seeing in Europe. It is simply stunning that the American press has said so little about the disastrous foreign policy of the Obama administration. The reason for the silence is that the liberal press despise the Iraq war so much, it is simply not going to accurately assess the results of Mr. Obama's timid approach.

 

 So now we have one of the biggest mass migrations in the history of the world, which is overwhelming and will allow terrorists entry into almost every Western country. Of course Russia and China will not accept migrants, they never do. Israel will also not accept refugees, fearing terrorist infiltration. As for America, 27 Iraqi Christians [who] made it here through the Southern border were promptly incarcerated by ICE. None of them have been granted asylum by the Obama administration. But we can now expect thousands of refugees to begin entering America. Summing up, the jihad on the march, the Obama administration and other Western powers have no idea how to deal with it, and the world is suffering drastic consequences.

  

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact:

editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

487 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times Blogs
(First Draft)

September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Candidates Address the Growing Refugee Crisis

BYLINE: ALAN RAPPEPORT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 357 words


HIGHLIGHT: The refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe shows no signs of abating and if it worsens in the coming weeks, candidates running for president of the United States will continue to be asked how they would solve the problem. 

The migrant crisis in the Middle East and Europe shows no signs of abating, and if it worsens in the coming weeks, candidates running for president of the United States will continue to be asked how they would solve the problem. 
So far, in interviews with news organizations, they have been mostly calibrating their responses as the situation evolves, offering views that range from tepid support to an aggressive rescue effort.
Mrs. Clinton : "It should not be just one or two countries, or not just Europe and the United States. We should do our part, as should the Europeans. But this is a broader global crisis."
Former Gov. Martin O'Malley  of Maryland: "65,000 is not too large a number for a country as strong and as big as the United States. We can't sit back and do nothing in the face of these images."
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina: "We should take our fair share. We are good people. I don't think the average American has any idea what it's like to live in the Mideast right now." He added: "We should take the Statue of Liberty and tear it down if this is our response as a nation. Just tear it down, because we don't need it anymore."
 Senator Marco Rubio of Florida: "We would be potentially open to the relocation of some of these individuals at some point in time to the United States."
Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana: "The answer is not for America to increase the number of refugees we take in. We are already the most compassionate and generous country in the world, and it is not even close." He added: "The idea that we can fix all these problems by just accepting the world's refugees is ridiculous. We simply have to get a new commander in chief, fast."
Mr. Trump : "There's only so much we can do. We have to fix our own country. Now, Europe is handling it. Germany has been very generous so far, which is very surprising to me, to be honest with you. But there's a huge problem, and we should help as much as possible, but we do have to fix our own country."
 Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved

500 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 7, 2015 Monday

This isn't a 'European problem'

BYLINE: MICHAEL IGNATIEFF

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1022 words

ABSTRACT
The United States, Canada and others must do more to help with the growing migrant crisis. 

FULL TEXT
Those of us outside Europe are watching the unbelievable images of the Keleti train station in Budapest, the corpse of a toddler washed up on a Turkish beach, the desperate Syrian families chancing their lives on the night trip to the Greek islands - and we keep being told this is a European problem.
The Syrian civil war has created more than four million refugees. The United States has taken in about 1,500 of them. The United States and its allies are at war with the Islamic State in Syria - fine, everyone agrees they are a threat - but don't we have some responsibility toward the refugees fleeing the combat? If we've been arming Syrian rebels, shouldn't we also be helping the people trying to get out of their way? If we've failed to broker peace in Syria, can't we help the people who can't wait for peace any longer? 
It's not just the United States that keeps pretending the refugee catastrophe is a European problem. Look at countries that pride themselves on being havens for the homeless. Canada, where I come from? As few as 1,074 Syrians, as of August. Australia? No more than 2,200. Brazil? Fewer than 2,000, as of May.
The worst are the petro states. As of last count by Amnesty International, how many Syrian refugees have the Gulf States and Saudi Arabia taken in? Zero. Many of them have been funneling arms into Syria for years, and what have they done to give new homes to the four million people trying to flee? Nothing.
The brunt of the crisis has fallen on the Turks, the Egyptians, the Jordanians, the Iraqis and the Lebanese. Funding appeals by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees have failed to meet their targets.
The squalor in the refugee camps has become unendurable. Now the refugees have decided, en masse, that if the international community won't help them, if neither Russia nor the United States is going to force the war to an end, they won't wait any longer. They are coming our way. And we are surprised?
Blaming the Europeans is an alibi and the rest of our excuses - like the refugees don't have the right papers - are sickening.
Political leadership from outside Europe could reverse the paralysis and mutual recrimination inside Europe. The United Nations system to register refugees is overwhelmed. Countries like Hungary say they can't resettle them all on their own. The obvious solution is for Canada, Australia, the United States, Brazil and other countries to announce that they are willing to send processing teams to Budapest, Athens and the other major entry points to register refugees and process them for admission.
Countries will set their own targets, but for the United States and Canada, for example, a minimum of 25,000 Syrian refugees is a good place to start. (The United States' recent promise to take in 5,000 to 8,000 Syrian refugees next year is still far too small.) Churches, mosques, community groups and families could agree to sponsor and resettle refugees. Most of the burdened countries - Hungary, Greece, Turkey, Italy - would accept help in a heartbeat. Once these states take a lead, other countries - including those wretched autocrats in the Gulf States - could be shamed into doing their part.
So why are our leaders - President Obama, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Prime Minister Tony Abbott and President Dilma Rousseff - doing so little? Resettling refugees, they fear, will trigger an even greater exodus, and they don't know how their teams could handle the chaos that would result. Tough, resourceful management - clear quotas for Syrian refugees (especially those with young families), simplified procedures and a commitment to airlift people out quickly - could solve these problems.
Most of all, however, leaders aren't acting because no one back home is putting any pressure on them. Now, thanks to heart-sickening photographs, let's hope the pressure grows.
This is a truly biblical movement of refugees and it demands a global response. If governments won't help refugees escape Syria, smugglers and human traffickers will, and the deadly toll will rise.
Once the Europeans know that their democratic friends are ready to take in their fair share, it will become easier for them to take theirs, and the momentum might emerge to reform the 1951 Refugee Convention, so that all those fleeing civil war, state collapse and murderous militias will get the same protection as those fleeing a well-founded fear of persecution.
Let's remember that we used to be able to rise to the occasion. My country, Canada, sent a government minister to Vienna in late 1956 to support a processing center that took in hundreds of Hungarians and airlifted them to Canada after the Soviets crushed the Hungarian uprising.
The Hungarians themselves seem to forget that they, too, were once refugees. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United States received hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese boat people. There were voices, on both occasions, that warned, this will trigger a flood. It did - and what excellent citizens these Vietnamese and Hungarians have been.
The Vietnamese and Hungarians were fleeing Communism. What's holding back sympathy for the Syrians? They've been barrel-bombed in Aleppo by their own regime, they've been tortured, kidnapped and massacred by miscellaneous jihadis and opposition militias.
They've been in refugee camps for years, waiting for that cruelly deceiving fiction ''the international community'' to come to their aid. Now, when they take to the roads, to the boats and to the trains, all our political leaders can think of is fences, barbed wire and more police.
What must Syrians, camped on the street outside the Budapest railway station, be thinking of all that fine rhetoric of ours about human rights and refugee protection? If we fail, once again, to show that we mean what we say, we will be creating a generation with abiding hatred in its heart.
So if compassion won't do it, maybe prudence and fear might. God help us if these Syrians do not forgive us our indifference.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: is a professor at the Harvard Kennedy School.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

501 of 999 DOCUMENTS


International New York Times

September 7, 2015 Monday

Refugees who could be us

BYLINE: BY NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 801 words

ABSTRACT
The drowning death of a 3-year-old Syrian, Aylan Kurdi, reflected a systematic failure of world leadership. 

FULL TEXT
Watching the horrific images of Syrian refugees struggling toward safety - or in the case of Aylan Kurdi, 3, drowning on that journey - I think of other refugees. Albert Einstein. Madeleine Albright. The Dalai Lama.
And my dad.
In the aftermath of World War II, my father swam the Danube River to flee Romania and become part of a tide of refugees that nobody much cared about. Fortunately, a family in Portland, Ore., sponsored his way to the United States, making this column possible.
If you don't see yourself or your family members in those images of today's refugees, you need an empathy transplant. 
Aylan's death reflected a systematic failure of world leadership, from Arab capitals to European ones, from Moscow to Washington. This failure occurred at three levels:
*The Syrian civil war has dragged on for four years now, taking almost 200,000 lives, without serious efforts to stop the bombings. Creating a safe zone would at least allow Syrians to remain in the country.
*As millions of Syrian refugees swamped surrounding countries, the world shrugged. United Nations aid requests for Syrian refugees are only 41 percent funded, and the World Food Program was recently forced to slash its food allocation for refugees in Lebanon to just $13.50 per person a month. Half of Syrian refugee children are unable to go to school. So of course loving parents strike out for Europe.
*Driven by xenophobia and demagogy, some Europeans have done their best to stigmatize refugees and hamper their journeys.
Bob Kitchen of the International Rescue Committee told me he saw refugee families arriving on the beaches of Greece, hugging one another and celebrating, thinking that finally they had made it - unaware of what they still faced in southern Europe.
''This crisis is on the group of world leaders who have prioritized other things,'' rather than Syria, Kitchen said. ''This is the result of that inaction.''
António Guterres, the head of the U.N. refugee agency, said the crisis was in part ''a failure of leadership worldwide.''
''This is not a massive invasion,'' he said, noting that about 4,000 people are arriving daily in a continent with more than half a billion inhabitants. ''This is manageable, if there is political commitment and will.''
We all know that the world failed refugees in the run-up to World War II. The U.S. refused to allow Jewish refugees to disembark from a ship, the St. Louis, that had reached Miami. The ship returned to Europe, and some passengers died in the Holocaust.
Aylan, who had relatives in Canada who wanted to give him a home, found no port. He died on our watch.
Guterres believes that images of children like Aylan are changing attitudes. ''Compassion is winning over fear,'' he said.
I hope he's right. Bravo in particular to Icelanders, who on Facebook have been volunteering to pay for the flights of Syrian refugees and then put them up in their homes. Thousands of Icelanders have backed this effort, under the slogan ''Just because it isn't happening here doesn't mean it isn't happening.''
Then there are the Persian Gulf countries. Amnesty International reports that Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates haven't accepted a single Syrian refugee (although they have allowed Syrians to stay without formal refugee status). Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia's bombings of Yemen have only added to the global refugee crisis.
We Americans may be tempted to pat ourselves on the back. But the U.S. has accepted only about 1,500 Syrian refugees since the war began, and the Obama administration has dropped the ball on Syria - whether doing something hard like using the threat of missiles to create a safe zone, or something easy like supporting more schools for Syrian refugee children in neighboring countries.
Granted, assimilating refugees is difficult. It's easy to welcome people at the airport, but more complex to provide jobs and absorb people with different values. (In Jordan, I once visited a refugee family hoping for settlement in the United States and saw a poster of Saddam Hussein on the wall; I wondered how that adjustment would go.)
In any case, let's be clear that the ultimate solution isn't to resettle Syrians but to allow them to go home.
''Stopping the barrel bombs will save more refugees dying on the route to Europe than any other action, because people want to return to live in their homes,'' noted Lina Sergie Attar, a Syrian-American writer and architect.
There has been a vigorous public debate about whether the photo of Aylan's drowned body should be shown by news organizations. But the real atrocity isn't the photo but the death itself - and our ongoing moral failure to save the lives of children like Aylan.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

513 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 4, 2015 Friday  
Late Edition - Final

Refugee Crisis in Europe

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 196 words

To the Editor:
Re ''Europe's Deadly Asylum Policies'' (editorial, Sept. 1):  
  Europe may offer a safe haven on the closest contiguous land mass to the troubled regions of Africa and the Middle East. But does that geography burden Europe with exclusive responsibility for what you call the ''human tsunami''?
  The United States had a role in the events leading up to this crisis; shouldn't we do more to help, before hectoring Europe to reform its failed asylum policies?
  America has vast regions of thin population, while Europe is already densely populated. We Americans need to remember our own humble origins as a nation of immigrants and welcome our fair share of these ''huddled masses yearning to breathe free.''
  PAUL J. CORCORAN
  Greenbrae, Calif.
  To the Editor:
  It is cruelly ironic that Hungary, which had been in the forefront in dismantling the barriers of the Iron Curtain, is now building a fence the length of its border with Serbia against people who have endured dreadful risks in striving for a better life. 
  DAN DONOVAN
  Dungarvan, Ireland
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/04/opinion/refugee-crisis-in-europe.html

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

521 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

August 19, 2015 Wednesday  
SOONER EDITION

CAUSE AND EFFECT; 
THE UNITED STATES OWNS PART OF EUROPE'S MIGRANT PROBLEM

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 687 words

The biggest problem of Europe, the Middle East and North Africa at the moment is massive migration.
It is a result of American direct and indirect war-making in recent years in those regions. Most Americans regard the problem as someone else's. We get away with it because people don't think the matter through.
The United States is responsible for two aspects of the problem. The first is that we have massively disrupted the societies and economies of the countries that are producing the refugees through war. The second source of our responsibility is that our role in the overthrow of the government in Libya turned that country into a rat's nest of chaos and non-government. The result is that Libya has come to serve as the jumping-off point for the boatloads of African and other refugees jamming their way into Southern Europe and even trying to cross the English Channel. 
A quick glance at the countries of origin of the refugees make America's role clear. They are Afghans, Iraqis, Libyans and Syrians, nationals of countries where we have tried to determine what government should be in power, including by raining countless bombs and drone-mounted missiles down on them. In each of these countries, America has destroyed order and the economy, making life unbearable and employment unobtainable. Put another way, we have turned Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria into countries that people are desperate to escape, no longer able to imagine their lives there given the dangerous, lawless cauldrons the countries have become.
In Afghanistan, the original punishment of the country for having served as the host of the 9/11 attacks on the United States is fully comprehensible and justifiable. Having troops there 14 years later, still trying to determine through military means what party rules the country, is not justifiable, or even comprehensible, unless one subscribes to the theory that America is totally dependent on and run by the military-industrial complex. Or there is a Shakespearian king's advice to his son and successor "to busy giddy minds with foreign quarrels," which seems to tempt American presidents.
Iraq is the same. The first Gulf War was justifiable because Saddam Hussein's Iraq had seized Kuwait, a sovereign state. George W. Bush carried out his invasion of Iraq in 2003 as the only means to be reelected, as a "war president." Unfortunately we are still there, trying to re-arrange the furniture by military force 12 years later.
Syria is difficult. Bashar Assad is definitely not a philosopher-king. On the other hand, our efforts through intermediaries to get rid of him have given rise to an increasingly credible Islamic State that appears to be more difficult than Ebola to get rid of.
Nor would anyone argue that Moammar Gadhafi wasn't a tyrant. But now there is no effective government in Libya, and something Mr. Gadhafi would never have permitted - free transit of thousands of migrants across his territory, many of them bound for death at sea - is now the order of the day in that failed North African state.
The United States was a direct participant in the replacement of Mr. Gadhafi's government in Libya, along with former colonial powers France, Italy and the United Kingdom.
The prime victims of all this are the refugees themselves. Their immediate dilemma - hunger, disease, homelessness - is far beyond the resources of the humanitarian world to meet. Their long-term dilemma, the inability to live any longer in their countries of origin because of destruction and disorder, as much as anything else caused by us, is close to impossible to deal with.
Dealing with many of the migrants is left in no small part to Greece, Europe's most economically damaged state, wracked with debt and unemployment.
America needs to think about its role in creating this tragedy and to take action to help the Europeans contend with it. No one expects us to take in masses of these people, but maybe we should - or at least help the Europeans proportionately with the problem. We could also stop continuing to provoke the flow of migrants from the countries where we continue to make war.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor (dsimpson@post-gazette. com, 412-263-1976).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

527 of 999 DOCUMENTS


San Jose Mercury News (California)

June 4, 2015 Thursday

Victor Davis Hanson: The rush of the world's poor

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 574 words

TUSCANY, Italy -- Northern and central Italy are not on the southern Mediterranean. But somehow thousands of refugees from Africa, Asia and the Middle East are everywhere here -- as is true of much of the European Union. Some sleep on park benches. Many peddle knockoff electronic goods and counterfeit watches. Angry Italians shoo away refugee beggars from tour groups. 
The Greek islands near the coast of Turkey are likewise flooded this summer with dispossessed refugees from countries such as Afghanistan and Syria. Apparently a bankrupt Greek government lacks the resources to patrol its vast coastline. Some beleaguered Greeks assume that thousands of boat people and homeless refugees will eventually leave their makeshift camps and head northward to the wealthier homelands of Greece's Northern European creditors.
A similar rush has overwhelmed America's southern border. In the last two years, tens of thousands of Central American and Mexican citizens have sensed that the Obama administration has suspended border enforcement. Illegal entry into the United States won't result in punishment but instead in an array of social services unimaginable in much of Latin America.
So, what explains this constant rush of the world's poor families into the West? And why aren't China, Russia, Iran and Cuba, for example, flooded with illegal entrants?
The human exodus to Western countries is not always explained by a lack of natural wealth elsewhere. Iraq and Venezuela, for example, are awash in oil. Mexico has lots of oil, minerals and fertile soil.
Wars may have driven scores of Afghanis, North Africans and Syrians from their homelands to the West, but most of Latin America is at relative peace.
The allure of the West is certainly not due to Europeans and Americans constantly brainwashing the world about their supposedly superior culture. Just the opposite is true. American media and universities constantly harangue about the race, class and gender shortcomings of Western civilization. President Obama has retold countless Western historical sins and offered apologies for them while abroad.
Nor are Western economies currently booming and thus short of labor. The European Union faces massive debt. America never quite recovered from the Great Recession of 2008-2009 and is currently experiencing negative economic growth. Many immigrants arrive without expectation of joining the labor force.
Nor do millions of refugees hear nice things about the West from their own governments.
State media throughout Latin America routinely trash Yanqui neo-imperialism and arrogance. The Middle East is one big anti-American megaphone that constantly ridicules Western decadence as the antithesis of Islamic decorum.
So why, then, do millions risk their lives to get into America, Europe and other Western nations by hook or by crook?
The Western poor enjoy a level of state support and access to technology, health care and security that would make them relatively rich in the Third World. Even a poor foreign-born peddler in Florence, Italy, has access to clean water and is safe in a way unknown to most residents of Syria or Afghanistan.
Add up the right to free expression, human rights, religious tolerance, constitutional government, an independent judiciary, separation of church and state, free-market economics and the protection of private property -- and everyday life becomes simply far better.
Victor Davis Hanson is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
All Rights Reserved

528 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

April 24, 2015 Friday

Mediterranean Migrant and Refugee Crisis Demonstrates Need for U.S. Leadership to Better Protect Refugees

LENGTH: 1113  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Human Rights First has issued the following news release:
Following today's meeting of European Union Leaders in Brussels to discuss a coordinated response to the migrant and refugee crisis in the Mediterranean, Human Rights First urged the United States to demonstrate global leadership on refugee protection by leading a comprehensive plan to resettle Syrian refugees and an international initiative to better protect the human rights of refugees, asylum seekers, and migrants.
"As the horrific drowning of more than 800 migrants and refugees off the coast of Libya this week has demonstrated, the world is facing a global humanitarian crisis," stated Human Rights First's Eleanor Acer. "Simply blocking refugees and migrants from crossing borders by land or sea is not the answer. It is also counterproductive and ineffective. The United States and the European Union should address these challenges through a comprehensive approach that adheres to human rights law and does not replicate the mistakes made by states in their border control responses to large numbers of fleeing refugees in the last century. The United States has an opportunity to exercise true leadership by championing protection of the persecuted and vulnerable, reforming its own interception and detention policies, and launching a major resettlement initiative for Syrian refugees in partnership with European states. How the European Union - and the United States - respond to this crisis will be a true test of global leadership in this century." 
As violence, human rights abuses, war, and terror plague an increasing number of countries, the number of refugees and displaced people worldwide has reached the highest levels since World War II.  So far this year, more than 1750 asylum seekers and migrants have died trying to cross the Mediterranean to Europe - 30 times higher than last year - half of whom are reportedly Syrians. About 4 million refugees have fled the violence, persecution, and terror in that country, with Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey hosting the overwhelming majority of them. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has asked states to resettle 130,000 Syrian refugees, but state commitments have fallen far short of that modest goal. The United Kingdom has reportedly agreed to resettle only 143 Syrian refugees and the United States has resettled only about 800 since the beginning of the Syrian conflict.
Noting that the European Union's response plan focuses primarily on stemming the arrival of migrants and refugees on European shores, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the special representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for International Migration, and the Director-General of the International Organization for Migration have called on the European Union to take collective action to launch a search and rescue mission to save lives, create channels for regular migration, significantly increase refugee resettlement, and combat xenophobic and racist rhetoric vilifying migrants and refugees.    
"The EU's failure to find an adequate collective response to the migration crisis in the Mediterranean has emboldened xenophobic, racist extremists in Europe," noted Human Rights First's Tad Stahnke. "The U.S. government  should support initiatives to protect refugees and immigrants from xenophobic and racist violence in Europe and elsewhere."
In response to the global refugee crisis, Human Rights First calls on the United States government to:
    Lead a global initiative - in partnership with European and other states - to improve, rather than diminish, access to protection for refugees and asylum seekers and to ensure that all efforts to address migration and smuggling include effective avenues for securing protection. A key component of this initiative should include increased refugee resettlement and steps to better protect the human rights of migrants and refugees.  This initiative should also examine the ways in which state policies and practices that simply block migration and prevent refugees from accessing asylum can be counterproductive, and create demand for smugglers.      
    Lead a comprehensive global plan to protect and resettle Syrian refugees, working in partnership with European and other states. This plan should assure that Syrian refugees are not blocked from crossing borders or fleeing their country to seek protection, and should aim to resettle at least 1 million Syrian refugees over 5 years. Such a plan would also help safeguard the stability of key states bordering Syria, and serve U.S. strategic interests. The United States should commit to resettle at least 65,000 Syrians by the end of 2016, and significantly more over the following years, as long as the need remains.
    Examine and reform the U.S. border policies that are inconsistent with refugee protection and human rights norms including to: end U.S. maritime interdiction policies that lack effective mechanisms to protect refugees from return to persecution;  press for effective refugee protection safeguards in all discussions relating to Central American and Mexican border and migration enforcement practices;   end the detention of children and families and the use of detention against individuals who qualify for  release but for the U.S. desire to "deter" migration.     
    Press the European Union to commit to a well-resourced and robust search and rescue operation aimed at saving lives and to create credible alternatives to sea voyages such as regular migration and family unification visas, and much more significant levels of refugee resettlement. A draft agreement for the Brussels meeting reportedly proposes only about 5000 resettlement spots.   
    Champion protection in the face of proposals that would leave migrants and asylum seekers to drown at sea, detained or stranded in countries where their lives and basic rights are at risk, or blocked from escaping persecution, violence and human rights abuses. 
    Redouble efforts to find effective multilateral solutions to the political crisis in Syria and to address the human rights abuses that are causing so many people to flee their homes and their countries in search of protection.  
"The United States is in a poor position to encourage its European allies to respond effectively to this crisis when it has fallen short both in resettling Syrian refugees and in its harsh detention, deterrence, and interception policies directed at Central America refugees," added Acer.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

529 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

April 23, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Muslim Colonization Of America: The Hijra And The Hijacking Of America's Refugee Resettlement Program

LENGTH: 965  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Religious Freedom Coalition has issued the following news release: 
Last week, the chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) wrote the Department of State demanding that it halt the resettlement of refugees in the city of Spartanburg in his district. 
In his letter dated April 15, 2015, Congressman Gowdy objected to the "lack of notice, information and consultation afforded to me and my constituents" and posed seventeen pointed questions, including (as paraphrased by Politico):
    Why and when was his district approved [as a refugee resettlement site]?
    What steps were taken to notify local government officials and whether they approved the plan, and where funds for the office and the refugees will come from?
    When are the first refugees expected to arrive?
    What benefits are they entitled to?
    How many will be resettled?
    What is their country of origin?
    Who is responsible for housing, employment and education services for them?
Congressman Gowdy was particularly concerned about the security implications of this immigrant migration.  He asked: "Do any of the refugees to be resettled in the Spartanburg area have criminal convictions? If so, for what crimes has each been convicted?" And "Please explain the background-check process performed on refugees scheduled to be resettled in Spartanburg.
    The necessity for such congressional oversight has been underscored by an important new monograph by Ann Corcoran entitled, Refugee Resettlement and the Hijra to America, which was published yesterday as part of the Center for Security Policy's Civilization Jihad Reader Series.
Ms. Corcoran documents that Muslim immigration as a form of jihad via colonization called hijra dates back to the time of Mohammed.  In fact, she quotes hadith sources that assert that migration is a religious obligation for Muslims to spread Islam and build the Islamic state.  She also cites longtime Libyan leader, Muammar Qaddafi, who once said that Europe would be conquered without guns and swords, but with Muslim migrants overrunning the continent.  A powerful new documentary by Martin Mawyer called "Europe's Last Stand; America's Final Warning" illustrates just how accurate this prediction is proving to be.
As practiced today, the hijra strategy is an important part of a covert, pre-violent "civilization jihad" pursued by the Muslim Brotherhood. The UN High Commission on Refugees - which, like the rest of the United Nations, is dominated by the dictates of the Islamic supremacist organization known as the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) - is complicit in the process of bringing Muslim refugees to America.  Interestingly, no Muslim refugees are ever resettled in wealthy, low-population density Islamic countries like Saudi Arabia.
Particularly troubling is the evidence that Ms. Corcoran compiles concerning the secrecy surrounding this U.S. refugee resettlement program.  She provides estimates of how many Muslim immigrants have been quietly resettled in American communities with no local input.  And she discusses the State Department's primary targets in the United States for Muslim resettlement and showcases models to be found in communities that are resisting this program.
    In her book, Ms. Corcoran recounts her personal trajectory from typical, uniformed citizen to a national authority on refugee resettlement policies and programs, the focus of her highly acclaimed blog, Refugee Resettlement Watch.  It began in 2007, when large numbers of Muslim Meskhetian Turks were quietly resettled by the U.S. State Department in her hometown in Western Maryland, prompting her to research intensively what was afoot.
Although the author and other concerned local residents succeeded in that instance in blocking the dumping of immigrants that are, as a practical matter, unlikely ever to assimilate, the episode led Ms. Corcoran to the discovery of a frightening pattern: Across the United States, the federal government is attempting stealthily to relocate Muslim immigrants into unsuspecting and often unsuitable rural communities. She found that the affected locals, and even states, are totally by-passed in a resettlement process effectively driven by the United Nations, with U.S. agencies playing a clearly subordinate and non-sovereign role.
In addition, Ms. Corcoran has documented how U.S. officials stubbornly refuse to answer affected communities' questions about Muslim resettlement. In fact, the State Department went so far as to stop holding townhalls and meetings in Washington, DC to discus after local community representatives began to attend.
Center for Security Policy President Frank Gaffney said of the new Civilization Jihad Reader:
Ann Corcoran's report is required reading for anyone worried about the threat to America from the global jihad movement.  She has provided shocking details of how a stealth effort by jihadists to advance their stated goal of "destroying Western civilization from within" is being abetted by the U.S. government.
It is to be profoundly hoped that Ms. Corcoran's analysis will raise awareness of this problem and that, especially with the concern being expressed by influential legislators like Congressman Trey Gowdy, it will help force U.S. officials to halt a dangerous refugee resettlement program.  Her suggestions about what average citizens can do to catalyze such changes amounts, moreover, to a real public service.
Ann Corcoran's Refugee Resettlement and the Hijra to America is downloadable for free on the Center for Security Policy website, www.securefreedom.org, and available for purchase via Amazon.com.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

535 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

January 12, 2015 Monday  
Late Edition - Final

The Syrian Refugee Crisis

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 240 words

To the Editor:
Re ''As Refugee Tide Swells, Lebanon Plans a Visa Requirement for Syrians'' (news article, Jan. 3): 
It comes as no surprise that Lebanon is imposing visa restrictions on Syrian refugees. With the highest per capita ratio of refugees in the world, Lebanon's population of about 4.4 million has already increased by more than 25 percent since the Syrian crisis began four years ago.
How can Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and Iraq possibly be expected to absorb more than three million refugees while more prosperous countries in the Middle East -- including Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates -- are still keeping their doors closed to Syrian refugees? With the exception of a few countries like Germany and Sweden, the majority of Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia have failed to accept any significant numbers of Syrian refugees.
The frail economies of the Levant are stressed by this large influx of refugees, resulting in state measures that seemingly protect the host populations. Furthermore, Lebanon has to contend with a delicate sectarian structure, which could ignite the region if further destabilized. A truly global effort is needed to alleviate the biggest humanitarian calamity of the 21st century.
JOSYANN ABISAAB SATCHIT BALSARI KATHLEEN HAMILL Boston, Jan. 6, 2015
The writers are researchers at Harvard's FXB Center for Health and Human Rights, and have reported on the Syrian refugee crisis.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/12/opinion/the-syrian-refugee-crisis.html

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

537 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

December 10, 2014 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

More Nations Pledge to U.N. to Resettle Syrian Refugees

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words

GENEVA -- The United Nations refugee agency said Tuesday that the number of Syrian refugees accepted for resettlement in third countries would more than double as a result of commitments given by governments at a ''pledging conference'' in Geneva. The agency's tally, however, still fell well short of its own target and even further behind its estimate of those who need resettlement. 
António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said after the meeting that he was ''very happy'' with the outcome of the conference in which 28 countries made firm commitments to accept 66,254 Syrian refugees and 11 other countries said they were exploring options or preparing to expand existing programs. That brings the refugee agency's estimate of the total number of resettlement places being offered to more than 100,000.
Mr. Guterres said countries so far had offered only 40,000 places for Syrians this year, adding, ''we are confident we have clearly more than doubled'' the number of resettlement places available.
The commitments, however, do little to ease the strain on countries neighboring Syria that are providing refuge to 3.2 million people registered as refugees with the United Nations and hundreds of thousands more who have not registered, putting pressure on hospitals, schools, housing, water resources and jobs.
In Jordan, which says that about 1.4 million Syrians are living within its borders, people ''are beginning to voice frustration,'' the country's interior minister, Hussein Majali, told the conference.
Frustration also appears to be growing among the refugees themselves. The total number accepted for resettlement since the start of the conflict in 2011 is just under 191,000, and in the past six months there has been a sharp increase in the number of Syrians risking dangerous journeys by boat across the Mediterranean in attempts to reach Europe.
The refugee agency has called on countries to accept 130,000 Syrians in 2015 and 2016, and Mr. Guterres said that more than 300,000 Syrians had to be resettled for health or other reasons. Some of them are ill or have experienced trauma in the conflict. Others cannot return in safety to Syria, even when the civil war ends.
The commitments made in the conference Tuesday represented ''an excellent interim result,'' Mr. Guterres added, but he emphasized that they were the beginning, not the end, of the process.
The United States and Canada have taken in around 5,350 Syrian refugees, but Assistant Secretary of State Anne C. Richard told the gathering that America was considering around 9,000 resettlement applications and receiving around 1,000 new cases a month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/10/world/middleeast/united-nations-wins-government-pledges-for-resettling-syrian-refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

538 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 21, 2014 Friday

Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015

LENGTH: 541  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:
Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015 Back to Top
Memorandum for the Secretary of State Back to Top 
In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the "Act") (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions:
The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of 100 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members):
 Africa  17,000  
 East Asia  13,000  
 Europe and Central Asia  1,000  
 Latin America and Caribbean  4,000  
 Near East and South Asia  33,000  
 Unallocated Reserve  2,000  
The 2,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions arises.
Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2015, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence:
a. Persons in Cuba
b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics
c. Persons in Iraq
d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador
e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any location
You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal Register. 
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

539 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 21, 2014 Friday

Washington: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015 Memorandum for the Secretary of State

LENGTH: 685  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 Federal Register, The Government of USA has issued the following notice: 
[Federal Register Volume 79, Number 225 (Friday, November 21, 2014)]
[Presidential Documents]
[Pages 69753-69754]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Printing Office [www.gpo.gov]
[FR Doc No: 2014-27860]

 Presidential Documents  
Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 225 / Friday, November 21, 2014 / 
Presidential Documents
[[Page 69753]]

 Presidential Determination No. 2014-17 of September 30, 
 2014

Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions 
 for Fiscal Year 2015
 Memorandum for the Secretary of State
 In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and 
 Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and 
 after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I 
 hereby make the following determinations and authorize 
 the following actions:
 The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United 
 States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 is justified by 
 humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national 
 interest; provided that this number shall be understood 
 as including persons admitted to the United States 
 during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement 
 assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions 
 program, as provided below.
 The admissions numbers shall be allocated among 
 refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United 
 States in accordance with the following regional 
 allocations; provided that the number of admissions 
 allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons 
 admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with 
 Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 
 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
 Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as 
 contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 
 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members):



   Africa................................................. 17,000 ......
   East Asia.............................................. 13,000 ......
   Europe and Central Asia................................ 1,000 ......
   Latin America and Caribbean............................ 4,000 ......
   Near East and South Asia............................... 33,000 ......
   Unallocated Reserve.................................... 2,000 ......
 The 2,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be 
 allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon 
 providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of 
 the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use 
 unallocated admissions in regions where the need for 
 additional admissions arises.
 Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary 
 Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized 
 to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular 
 region to one or more other regions, if there is a need 
 for greater admissions for the region or regions to 
 which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent 
 with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee 
 Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that 
 assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for 
 admission to the United States as part of the overseas 
 refugee admissions program will contribute to the 
 foreign policy interests of the United States and 
 designate such persons for this purpose.
 Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 
 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with 
 the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2015, the 
 following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be 
 considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the 
 United States within their countries of nationality or 
 habitual residence:
 a. Persons in Cuba
 b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics
[[Page 69754]]
 c. Persons in Iraq
 d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador
 e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified 
 by a United States Embassy in any location
 You are authorized and directed to publish this 
 determination in the Federal Register.


 (Presidential Sig.)
 THE WHITE HOUSE,
 Washington, September 30, 2014
[FR Doc. 2014-27860
Filed 11-20-14; 11:15 am]
Billing code 4710-10

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

541 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

November 3, 2014 Monday

Local Integration: Thumbs Up for Tanzania

LENGTH: 767  words

Washington, D.C.: Refugees International has issued the following news release:
According to Antonio Guterres, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, "eighty-six per cent of refugees in the world live in developing countries, and the truth is that many of these host countries that have so generously opened their borders, often more generously than the developed countries, are not receiving adequate solidarity from the international community."
In one respect, however, the world's more prosperous countries have been more welcoming to refugees than those with less developed economies. In the countries of Europe, North America, and Australasia, it is the norm for refugees - whether they have arrived independently or by means of an organized resettlement program - to apply for naturalization and to become citizens of the country which has offered them sanctuary. While such applications cannot be submitted immediately after arriving in one of these countries, it is usually possible to do so within four or five years. According to UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, some 800,000 refugees have been naturalized over the past decade, two-thirds of them in the United States alone.  
Such naturalization arrangements are much less common in developing countries, where governments have generally been wary of allowing refugees to remain on an indefinite basis and to acquire citizenship there. In general, such countries have preferred to give refugees only temporary residence rights, expecting them to return to their country of origin as soon as it is safe to do so.
While that approach might be an acceptable and appropriate one in situations where voluntary repatriation becomes possible in a relatively short period of time, such scenarios are becoming increasingly rare. According to one calculation, well over 60 per cent of the world's refugees have been living in exile for more than five years and have no immediate prospect of finding a solution to their plight. Around 30 of these protracted refugee situations are to be found around the world today.
It is not surprising that developing countries should be reluctant to offer refugees the opportunity to become locally integrated. Many of these countries are struggling to meet the needs of their own citizens. They think that refugees who are allowed to remain indefinitely will place additional pressure on scarce resources such as jobs and land. And they are likely to be particularly averse to naturalization in situations where refugees do not share the culture, language, and ethnic background of the local population, and are consequently seen as 'outsiders'.
And that is exactly the problem. Long-term refugees who do not have the option of local integration and naturalization are condemned to be outsiders, unable to exercise their full range of rights, marginalized from mainstream society and obliged to pass on their refugee status on to their children. In the Dadaab camp in Kenya, for example, more than 6,000 children are being raised by parents who were themselves born as refugees in the camp. This is not a situation that was envisaged in UNHCR's 1951 Statute, which refers to the organization's task of "promoting the assimilation of refugees, especially by facilitating their naturalization."
Given the hesitation with which developing countries have generally approached this issue, Tanzania has just taken the remarkable step of offering citizenship to some 200,000 Burundian refugees, many of whom had fled from their homeland in 1972. According to UNHCR, "this is the first time in UNHCR's history that naturalization is offered as a solution to such a large group of refugees in a country of first asylum."
Accommodated in three settlements in western Tanzania, the Burundians disprove many of the myths surrounding refugees. They live harmoniously with their neighbors. They are self-reliant. They pay taxes. And in addition to their own food, they produce tobacco and coffee for export, thereby contributing to the economy of their host county.
At a recent meeting in Geneva, a Tanzanian government representative observed that "the success of the local integration process is a must, if the new citizens are to benefit fully from the rights of being a citizen, if they are to increase their contribution to the development of Tanzania, if they and the local communities are to continue to live together peacefully, and if this is to be a model which other countries can emulate." Let us hope that it is.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

544 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 27, 2014 Saturday  
The New York Times on the Web

Refugee Flow to Industrialized Nations Is Poised for a 20-Year High

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 489 words

GENEVA -- Conflict and instability in the Middle East and parts of Africa look set to push the number of people seeking asylum in industrialized countries to the highest level in 20 years in 2014, the United Nations refugee agency said Friday, warning that the flow of refugees was increasing the strain on already overstretched humanitarian aid budgets. 
More than 330,700 people applied for asylum in a group of 44 countries in Europe, North America and parts of the Asia-Pacific region in the first half of the year, the refugee agency reported, almost a quarter more than in the last half of 2013.
From the experience of past years, which saw more people seeking asylum in the second half of the year, it predicts that the number of people seeking refuge in these countries will reach more than 700,000 by the end of the year, the highest level since the Balkan wars of the 1990s.
The fast-rising number of asylum seekers adds to the alarm expressed by international aid agencies struggling to cope with numbers of people displaced by conflict that have reached the highest level since the end of World War II and soaring numbers of migrants risking their lives to reach the richer countries of Europe and North America.
''The international community needs to prepare their populations for the reality that in the absence of solutions to conflict, more and more people are going to need refuge and care in the coming months and years,'' António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, warned in a statement. He added: ''Unfortunately, it is not clear that the resources and the access to asylum will be available to help them.''
The biggest group of asylum seekers in recent years came from Afghanistan, refugee agency spokesman Adrian Edwards said, but in 2014 the largest number are Syrians fleeing more than three years of civil war.
Some 48,400 Syrians sought asylum in the first half of the year, a tiny number compared with the more than three million Syrian refugees sheltering in neighboring countries but still more than double the number applying in the same period of last year.
The other main sources of asylum seekers were Iraq, Afghanistan and Eritrea, together producing close to 60,000 applicants, the refugee agency reported.
More than two-thirds of asylum seekers in the first half of the year sought entry to six countries, including four Western European countries, Turkey and the United States.
Some 52,800 asylum seekers applied to get into the United States, more than one-third of them from Mexico and Central America escaping drug cartel and organized crime violence, although China, as in previous years, was the main country of origin.
Germany, Sweden and France were among the most sought-after destinations, particularly by Syrians, while Italy, the destination of thousands of migrants smuggled across the Mediterranean from North Africa, saw rising asylum claims from West African countries.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/27/world/europe/refugee-flow-to-industrialized-nations-is-poised-for-a-20-year-high.html

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

548 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

July 23, 2014 Wednesday

Op-Ed Rich countries, barred doors: Why aren't the U.S. and Europe more welcoming?

LENGTH: 899  words

Washington, D.C.: American Immigration Lawyers Association has issued the following news release:
Something similar is happening at the U.S.-Mexico border and on the Mediterranean. In both places, lifesaving and rights-respecting policies are being blamed for a surge in migrants and asylum seekers.
Italy started a rescue-at-sea operation called Mare Nostrum in response to the drowning of 360 boat migrants in October. In the first six months of this year, 65,000 boat migrants arrived in Italy, an eightfold increase over the same period in 2013. 
And in the United States, in response to horror stories of the trafficking of children Congress passed an anti-trafficking law in 2008 that provided full hearings for unaccompanied children from noncontiguous countries. While waiting for claims for protection to be heard, they are released to families or other sponsors rather than being detained. So far this fiscal year, more than 57,000 unaccompanied Central American children have arrived at the U.S. border.
These are large numbers, but a little global perspective is warranted. Syria's neighbors in the Mideast, for example, are hosting more than 2.5 million Syrian refugees. Based on absolute numbers, or on the ability to absorb newcomers as a factor of GDP and population, the industrialized countries do not bear nearly the refugee burden of a Kenya, Jordan, Thailand or scores of other nations.
Regardless of how the refugee burdens compare, however, the United States and Europe have met the latest influx of migrants with a groundswell of negativity. Many in the United States are calling on President Obama to make changes in policy or the law so that "irregular migrants" can be quickly removed, with only cursory consideration of their protection claims. European Union governments have refused to give political and financial backing to Mare Nostrum, calling instead for tougher action against smugglers. Italian opposition parties want to shut down the rescue operation altogether.
These are not just knee-jerk, xenophobic howls. The chronology of events suggests that protective laws and policies may have been a pull factor for migrants. It is likely that smugglers and other criminals are profiting from these irregular migration streams, and that some of the migrants will not qualify as refugees.
But credible assessments indicate that many of the new arrivals are legitimately in need of international protection. A 2014 study by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees found that 58% of unaccompanied and separated Central American children arriving in the United States face the kind and level of harm in their home countries that indicates a need for international protection. The Italian government has estimated that 80% of boat migrants this year, many from Syria, Somalia and Eritrea, qualify for formal refugee status or other forms of protection.
There are many possible approaches to handling these influxes, but fast-track processing that cuts corners on due process should not be one of them. The process of sorting out claims for protection cannot be hurried without risking errors that could have life-and-death consequences, and the fact that children are involved makes this process even more difficult. Whether a child qualifies for protection involves complex legal considerations, such as whether the child meets the refugee definition, whether he or she is controlled by traffickers and whether the home government can provide protection from further abuse; and if the child is to be deported, have arrangements been made to properly receive and re-integrate him or her?
So, what is to be done?
Greater attention must be paid to improving human rights conditions and insecurity in the countries of origin and the countries of transit, but this is a long-term effort and will not help solve the immediate problem.
For the short term, both the United States and the EU have the capacity to bear the costs of providing fair and efficient processing as well as decent reception conditions. What is lacking is the political will to bear these costs. Equitable burden-sharing among the American states and European nations would transform these situations from crises into manageable problems, but political wrangling has stymied attempts to distribute costs and responsibilities.
In addition to providing financial support and joining in the Mare Nostrum rescue operation, EU leaders could approve measures that would relieve Italy's burden by, for example, transferring asylum seekers among the 27 other EU member states, according to their capacity. In the United States, Obama's request for $3.7 billion in additional funding to respond to the border influx has, thus far, largely produced congressional posturing rather than serious debate on whether the funding will be used to protect children's rights.
Humane solutions are not quick, easy or cheap, but they are manageable for relatively rich democratic societies. Such societies bear a particular responsibility to serve as models of behavior for countries with far less capacity that receive far larger numbers of refugees. The real burden on the United States and Italy is to show that even large numbers of migrants and asylum seekers can be treated fairly and efficiently without sacrificing basic due process protections and respect for human dignity.
For more information please visit: http://www.aila.org

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

550 of 999 DOCUMENTS



US Official News

July 18, 2014 Friday

Washington: CARING FOR REFUGEES -- (Senate - July 17, 2014)

LENGTH: 918  words

DATELINE: Washington 

 The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:
 Mr. KAINE. Madam President, in the last year I have been to Jordan, Turkey, and Lebanon to visit Syrian refugees and the organizations that work with them. I have seen the effects of refugees fleeing violence on these nations. Lebanon has 4 million people. They are having to care for 1 million refugees from Syria--one in four members of their population.
 These countries, especially Jordan and Lebanon, are small--much smaller than the United States. They are much poorer than the United States. Jordan has very little water for their own citizens, much less refugees, but they have shown a real sense of compassion and hospitality in treating these Syrian refugees who are fleeing violence and coming over their border. Lebanese citizens even run double school shifts--their own kids in the morning and Syrian refugees in the afternoon. 
 When I have been in the Middle East in these countries, I have wondered what would happen if refugees fleeing violence in other countries came to the United States. I wonder if we would show the same compassion to refugees that is being shown by these poorer nations.
 I wish to say a few words about the crisis at the border now because we are now faced with that question--refugees fleeing violence and coming to the United States.
 Who are the children coming to the United States? They are overwhelmingly refugees from three Central American countries--52,000 just this year. They are not just coming to the United States; they are also flooding into Costa Rica and Nicaragua.
 Senator Menendez held a hearing this morning, and we had testimony. What is the reason they are coming? And the testimony was this: The reason they are coming is overwhelmingly the violence in the neighborhoods where they live that forces their parents to decide that to keep them safe, they should leave.
 What is the source of the violence? Again, overwhelmingly, the testimony is that the source of the violence is the drug trade that has corrupted the neighborhoods and made them dangerous. The kids are fleeing violence driven by the drug trade.
 Here is the sort of sad punch line: Where does the drug trade originate? The drug trade is originating because of the significant demand in the United States for illegal drugs, especially cocaine.
 So these kids are fleeing to the United States because Americans are buying illegal drugs in such numbers and the dollars being shipped south are creating conditions for gang warfare and cartels, turning these nations into transit points for drugs.
 I know these children, and I know their neighborhoods. I lived in El Progreso, Honduras, in 1980 and 1981. Six hundred kids from El Progreso have already come to the United States as unaccompanied refugees this year.
 Honduras, a beautiful country with beautiful people, a longtime ally of the United States, is now the murder capital of the world. There are more people murdered in Honduras than in any other country. El Salvador is No. 4 in the world, and Guatemala is No. 5 in the world.
 I recently met with President Hernandez of Honduras to talk about what we can do. So what should we do? Let's get to the prescription. What should we do?
 First, we have to stop blaming the kids or assuming they are bad people. They are not. We need to show the same compassion for refugees fleeing violence and coming to the United States as nations such as Lebanon, Turkey, and Jordan show to refugees fleeing violence and coming to their nations.
 Secondly, we need to work on our legal process and the resources the President asked for. I have some criticisms of exactly how those dollars will be spent and the particular protections these refugees need when they arrive. Remember, it is a 2008 law we are dealing with that was passed unanimously by Congress and signed by President Bush.
 We need to do immigration reform. The fact that we haven't done it for so long creates a sense of confusion. If we can clearly elaborate what our immigration policy is, it will dispel myths.
 More support for security in Central America is critical. We need to interdict more drugs. General Kelly, the head of SOUTHCOM, says we let 75 percent of the drugs that come into the United States go by us. We know where they are, but we haven't put the military resources in place to interdict them.
[Page: S4599] GPO's PDF
 Finally, we have to tackle the U.S. demand for drugs because that is what is driving the violence in the neighborhoods which is causing kids to flee.
 In conclusion, this year is the 75th anniversary of a very shameful event--the voyage of the St. Louis. The St. Louis was a ship that left Germany in 1939 with hundreds of Jews onboard. These Jews were fleeing violence and antisemitism to come to the new world. They were not allowed to disembark in Cuba, they were not allowed to disembark in the United States, and they were not allowed to disembark in Canada. Eventually, the ship had to be routed back to Europe, where, research shows, hundreds of those Jews who had to get back off in Europe died in the Holocaust.
 The testimony this morning was that if we, without due process, send these children home, many will die as a result.
 The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator's time has expired.
 Mr. KAINE. That lesson of the St. Louis should stick with us, and there are many things we can do to avert this crisis and to show our good hearts as Americans. 
For more information please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
All Rights Reserved

552 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

June 22, 2014 Sunday  
Late Edition - Final

In Refugee Statistics, a Stark Tale of Global Strife

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN. 
Serge Schmemann is a member of the editorial board of The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; QUICK HISTORY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words

Statistics are not usually effective at depicting tragedy, which is why United Nations reports rarely generate passion. But the figures released this past week by the United Nations refugee agency offer perhaps the starkest reflection of the strife raking vast stretches of the globe.
The number of people around the world forced by conflict to flee their homes, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported, has soared past 51 million, the highest number since World War II. That's more than six times the population of New York City, emptied into squalid camps. 
Half the refugees are children; a growing number of these are on their own, according to the report. More than half of the 6.3 million refugees under the refugee agency's care have been in exile for five years or more, testifying to conflicts that rage on and on. Most are what the United Nations refers to as ''internally displaced'' -- people who have fled their homes but not their countries.
The continuing bloodshed in Syria was the biggest generator of refugees in 2013, but strife in Afghanistan, the Central African Republic, Mali, Somalia and elsewhere added hundreds of thousands, while the eruption of new sectarian strife in Iraq, along with conflicts in places like South Sudan and Ukraine, promised to further swell the ranks of the displaced in 2014.
The stunning figures offer a bitter counterpoint to the growing resistance in Europe and the United States to letting in immigrants and asylum seekers, and to the endless sterile blame-games about responsibility for the various conflicts. Only a lucky trickle of the refugees made it to developed countries; the vast majority, 86 percent, were living in developing countries.
''There is no humanitarian response able to solve the problems of so many people,'' warned António Guterres, the high commissioner for refugees. And the international community had ever less capacity or consensus, he added, to prevent or resolve conflicts.
What to Do About Iraq?
Whether in fact the United States had the duty or ability to prevent or resolve conflicts far from its shores was once again a subject of bitter debate in America as a brutal Sunni militia rampaged through Iraqi cities for which thousands of American soldiers had fought and died.
A chorus of conservatives and neocons, led by veterans of the George W. Bush administration and supported by hawkish pundits, piled on to President Obama, accusing him of pulling American troops out of Iraq too early and too completely, and in general of allowing America to be perceived as weak. ''Rarely has a U.S. president been so wrong about so much at the expense of so many,'' wrote Dick Cheney with his daughter Liz in The Wall Street Journal, apparently oblivious to the irony of echoing a common sentiment about the president he once served. On Fox News radio, John R. Bolton, one of the more vociferous hawks of the Bush administration, argued, ''The fact was the continuing presence of U.S. troops in Iraq was critical to sustaining the victories that we won.''
President Obama, by contrast, has made it an article of faith in his foreign policy that military intervention is neither the solution to every problem nor necessary for America to avoid looking weak. He announced on Thursday that he was sending up to 300 military advisers to Baghdad, and was prepared to take ''targeted and precise military action,'' meaning airstrikes, against the rebel force known as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). But he made clear that there would be no mission creep: It was for Iraq to do the heavy lifting and to find the leaders who could unite them, he firmly declared.
And in an indirect retort to his critics, he made clear his belief that the Iraq war had been a mistake: ''What's clear from the last decade is the need for the United States to ask hard questions before we take action abroad, particularly military action.''
One issue on which there seemed to be general agreement was that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki was heavily responsible for creating the Sunni anger on which ISIS fed by openly favoring his fellow Shiites in government and the military. There was a strong feeling that Mr. Maliki had to be replaced by someone better suited for the herculean task of trying to bring Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds together again. Another aspect of the struggle with Middle Eastern extremists that has confounded the Obama administration is what to do with captured terrorists when every effort is being made to empty out the infamous Guantánamo Bay prison. This came up anew after United States commandos and F.B.I. agents captured Ahmed Abu Khattala, the Libyan suspected of a central role in the attack on the United States mission in Benghazi in 2012, in a bold and bloodless midnight raid on Monday.
Republicans in Congress have long wielded the Benghazi debacle, in which the ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans were killed, as a political weapon against Mr. Obama; they recently ordered yet another congressional probe, their ninth, into what happened. The seizure of Mr. Abu Khattala, however, did not end the crusade -- many Republicans demanded that the captive be dispatched to Guantánamo and not tried in federal court, as the administration plans to do.
And Then There's Ukraine
By the standards of Syria or other Middle Eastern conflicts that defy all efforts at resolution, Ukraine is but a blip. Yet three months after Crimea was annexed by Russia, encouraging similar rebellion among Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine, nasty skirmishes persist between them and ineffective Ukrainian forces, confounding hopes in the West and in Ukraine that the conflict will taper off of its own accord.
Announcements of a unilateral cease-fire by Ukraine's new president, Petro O. Poroshenko, and his discussions of a possible peace plan with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, have done nothing to curb the rebels or stop the bloodshed.
One obvious problem is that the Russian-Ukrainian border is porous in the contested regions, allowing Russians and Russian arms unfettered entry into Ukraine. But after Ukrainian forces tried to seal the border this past week, Russia moved troops to several border crossings.
The Russians have also maintained pressure on the economic front, cutting off gas supplies to Ukraine. With his ability to turn the military and economic pressures on Kiev up and down, Mr. Putin seems to have Ukraine where he wants it -- weak, disordered and dependent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/22/opinion/sunday/in-refugee-statistics-a-stark-tale-of-global-strife.html

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A refugee camp in Khazer, Iraq, expanded rapidly last week as families fled Mosul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)       

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

558 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

March 21, 2014 Friday  
Late Edition - Final

Syria's War Fuels Rise of Asylum Seekers, Report Says

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 246 words

The number of people applying for asylum in industrialized countries rose in 2013 to the highest number in more than a decade, increased to a large extent by Syrians seeking refuge in the West, the United Nations refugee agency reported Thursday. 
More than 612,700 people applied for asylum in North America, Europe and East Asia and the Pacific, according to the agency's Asylum Trends report, an increase of 28 percent over 2012. Most left countries experiencing violent conflict, with Syria topping the list, said Volker Turk, the refugee agency's director of international protection, in Geneva.
Mr. Turk called the trend ''a manifestation of what is actually going wrong in the world.'' The number of Syrians seeking asylum in industrialized nations more than doubled to 56,351 in 2013, he said.
Since the conflict began in 2011, 2.6 million Syrians have fled their homes; most of them have sought shelter in neighboring countries. Although a number of countries have established special quotas for refugees from Syria, only 29 percent of Syrian applicants were given full refugee status in the first half of the year, Mr. Turk said, although many more received other forms of protection that fell short of the full residency accorded refugees.
Close to 485,000 people, or 80 percent of all applicants, sought asylum in European countries in 2013, particularly in Germany and Sweden, while nearly 100,000 applicants, or 16 percent tried to get to the United States and Canada.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/21/world/middleeast/syrias-war-fuels-rise-of-asylum-seekers-un-report-says.html

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

565 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

July 30, 2012 Monday  
Late Edition - Final

A Word With: Karolina Waclawiak A Los Angeles Postcard, Tinged with Isolation

BYLINE: By JOHN WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 968 words

In ''How to Get Into the Twin Palms,'' Karolina Waclawiak's first novel, a young Polish woman named Anya struggles with her isolated existence in Los Angeles. Her dreams revolve around gaining entrance to the private club of the title, a place exclusively reserved for the city's Russian residents. Anya tries to pass herself off as Russian and cozies up to a possibly dangerous man named Lev. In a recent interview via e-mail, Ms. Waclawiak discussed her resemblance to Anya, her favorite writers on Los Angeles, how she would cast a movie version of her novel and more. Below are excerpts from the conversation.
Q. 
How much does your biography dovetail with Anya's? Were you born in America?
A.
Anya was born from me, so I do share her questions about culture and identity. I was born in Lodz, Poland, and came to America when I was 2 years old. I don't remember our journey at all, but it's had a large impact on me. Like Anya, I did go to a summer camp for refugee children in Texas when I was young, and it was largely split between Eastern European and Asian refugees. Many had only been in the country for a few years but I had been in America nearly my entire life, so it was a strange experience.
Q.
How long did you live in Los Angeles?
A.
I moved to L.A. when I was 18 and lived there for 10 years. That's where I had to become self-sufficient and learn how to be alone, so I really feel closely connected to the city.
Q.
Is the Twin Palms a real club? Did it fascinate you the way it did Anya?
A.
The Twin Palms was a real club. It's since had a name change, although I think it's operating in the same way - private and exclusive. It was a mysterious place that would suddenly perk up with Russians in fancy attire after looking largely vacant. I wanted to know what was going on inside but didn't have the privilege of access.
Q.
Would you describe Anya as self-destructive? How would you describe what she's seeking?
A.
I think Anya is reckless in a way common to a lot of 20-year-olds. She wants to push herself to the limit, almost to make sure she's still alive. She wants to feel something, to know who she is, which I think is pretty universal. But she tries to find herself by transforming into someone else completely, which is extreme.
Q.
There are glimpses into the back story of Anya's parents and grandparents, and of their lives in Poland. Did you write more about those things and then trim for the book, or were the glimpses meant to be all from the start?
A.
I only wanted glimpses of Anya's past, so I kept the passages very short from the beginning. I didn't want the back story to take over the book, but I did want to provide some context as to why she felt so lost and confused, both culturally and emotionally.
Q.
Do you picture what happens to your characters after their stories end on the page?
A.
I should feel some sense of responsibility to my characters and to how they turn out. I tried to end the book on a somewhat hopeful note, rather than driving Anya into the ground. If she were smart, she'd run far, far away.
Q.
In a conversation with your fiance, the musician Jon DeRosa, you said of your earlier writing, ''I wanted my work to be 'authentically mine,' not realizing that I could pick up tricks from more seasoned writers and it was O.K.'' Who are some of those more seasoned writers, and what's one of the tricks you learned?
A.
I started reading John Fante religiously in my early 20s, and was so taken by the specificity of Los Angeles in his books that I knew I had to develop a strong sense of place in my own writing. He was so skilled at building the world of L.A., especially in ''Dreams From Bunker Hill.'' I also count the Hungarian author Agota Kristof, Aleksandar Hemon, Sam Lipsyte, Christine Schutt, A.M. Homes, Heidi Julavits and Gary Lutz as big influences. From Sam Lipsyte I learned how to temper darkness with humor.
Q.
L.A. has a long history in books and movies. Do you have any favorite representations of it besides Fante's?
A.
I prefer the gritty portrayals of L.A. to anything else, so crime writers like James Ellroy, Edward Bunker and Raymond Chandler really appeal to me. Ellroy's work crackles with nostalgia and has such force to it. Bunker, an ex-con, wrote unflinchingly honest stuff. ''Day of the Locust'' by Nathanael West and ''What Makes Sammy Run?'' by Budd Schulberg are also favorites. Joan Didion's unadorned prose is a huge influence. To see writing stripped of any sentimentality was thrilling to me as a young writer.
Q.
You're a screenwriter as well as a novelist. What role did you play in putting together the stylish trailer for the book?
A.
I'm lucky to have a talented sister, Dominika Waclawiak, who works in film. We discussed the ideas I wanted to get across, the images that would best capture the city and the tone the trailer should have. Jon DeRosa provided the soundtrack, which added a sense of longing and moodiness. I think the trailer captured the tone of the book spectacularly.
Q.
Are there any books you would especially love to adapt for the movies if given the chance?
A.
Sam Lipsyte actually gave me the opportunity to adapt his short story collection ''Venus Drive.'' My adaptation centers on ''Cremains,'' a story about a young man trying to cope with the death of his mother, but it also takes from nine other stories to create one narrative that incorporates many characters. I think his work is perfectly suited for film, and I'd love to see it get made.
Q.
Keep your filmmaker hat on for one more minute, and tell me who would play Anya and Lev if ''Twin Palms'' made it to the screen.
A.
Mia Wasikowska for Anya and Peter Sarsgaard for Lev. Sarsgaard can be charming and dangerous. Mia is an excellent actress and I think she could anchor the film.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Anya was born from me, so I do share her questions about culture and identity,'' the novelist Karolina Waclawiak said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC BURG)                                                                            

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company

569 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The International Herald Tribune

March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Asylum bids to industrial nations rose 20% in 2011

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words

ABSTRACT
People fleeing new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a rising tide of people escaping from chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent rise in requests for asylum in industrialized countries last year, the U.N. said Tuesday. 

FULL TEXT
People fleeing new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a rising tide of people escaping from chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent increase in requests for asylum in industrialized countries last year, the refugee agency of the United Nations reported on Tuesday. 
The agency's annual report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries 2011, said 441,300 people had requested asylum last year, compared with 368,000 in 2010.
The report surveyed 44 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.
The report said the region with the largest increase in claims for the year was Southern Europe, where 66,800 people sought asylum, most of them arriving by boat in Italy and Malta, an increase of 87 percent from the year before.
''The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of great difficulty for very many people,'' António Guterres, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, said in a statement from his Geneva office.
Together, the 38 countries of Europe registered 327,200 asylum claims, more than any other region; the figure was a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America registered 99,400 claims, a 25 percent increase.
The country of origin for the largest number of asylum seekers was Afghanistan - 35,700, a 34 percent increase from the year before. China remained the second-largest source of asylum seekers, at 24,400, followed by Iraq, at 23,500.
The United States was the individual country covered by the report that received the most applications for asylum, estimated at 74,000.
But the report noted that South Africa, which was not covered, received 107,000 asylum claims in 2011. South Africa has attracted an enormous number of refugees lately, not only from neighbors in southern Africa but also from as far away as Pakistan and Bangladesh.
The report noted that while claims for asylum are an indicator of the desperation created by conflicts, they are not an indicator of broader migration trends, and do not reflect the number of people who are officially recognized as refugees.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
All Rights Reserved

570 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

March 28, 2012 Wednesday  
Late Edition - Final

Wars in Middle East and Africa Fuel Rise in Asylum Requests

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 369 words

Escapees from new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a rising tide of people fleeing chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent increase in requests for asylum in industrialized countries last year, the United Nations refugee agency reported Tuesday. 
Its annual report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries 2011, said 441,300 people requested asylum last year, compared with 368,000 in 2010. The report surveyed 44 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.
The report said that the region with the largest increase in claims for the year was southern Europe, where 66,800 people sought asylum last year, most of them arriving by boat in Italy and Malta, an increase of 87 percent from the year before.
''The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of great difficulty for very many people,'' Antonio Guterres, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said in a statement from his Geneva office.
Together, the 38 countries of Europe registered 327,200 asylum claims, more than any other region; the figure was a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America registered 99,400 claims, a 25 percent increase.
The country of origin for the largest number of asylum seekers was Afghanistan -- 35,700, a 34 percent increase from the year before. China, the world's most populous nation, remained the second-largest source of asylum seekers, at 24,400, followed by Iraq, at 23,500.
The United States was the individual country covered by the report that received the most applications for asylum, estimated at 74,000. But the report noted that South Africa, which was not covered, received 107,000 asylum claims in 2011. South Africa has attracted an enormous number of refugees lately, not only from neighbors in southern Africa but also from as far away as Pakistan and Bangladesh.
The report noted that while claims for asylum are an indicator of the desperation created by conflicts, they are not an indicator of broader migration trends, and do not reflect the number of people who are officially recognized as refugees.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company

577 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

November 21, 2010 Sunday  
Regional Edition

Dealing with climate change

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 171 words

Bjorn Lomborg's Nov. 17 op-ed, "How to live with climate change," was a welcome alternative to articles denying climate change, but it missed the big picture. Mr. Lomborg may convince us that "we" can adapt to the adverse affects of climate change because the "we" whom he assumes we care about are the relatively wealthy countries in North America and Europe.  
Mr. Lomborg mentioned the Netherlands' ability to deal with much of its land being below sea level, but what about Bangladesh?  Perhaps Dutch refugees won't be flooding Europe and America, but climate change will displace others - adding to an already growing concern in the United States and Europe about how to treat growing numbers of immigrants fairly. Consider that refugees will be displaced by the effects of climate change in increasing numbers. Consider, too, that many will understand that they are being displaced by the effects of decisions made largely in the "developed" world and that the disastrous effects of climate change could have been avoided.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

594 of 999 DOCUMENTS


USA TODAY

May 1, 2009 Friday  
FINAL EDITION

FDR pushed to get Jews to safety in 1930s; 
New evidence challenges view that he made little effort to help

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 525 words

Newly uncovered documents reveal that President Franklin D. Roosevelt worked quietly in the late 1930s to find havens for European Jews, contradicting the view that he ignored their plight in the years leading up to the Holocaust. 
Roosevelt was "a master politician who tried to carry out some humanitarian steps while juggling political and military considerations," writes historian Richard Breitman, co-editor of Refugees and Rescue: The Diaries and Papers of James G. McDonald (1935-1945) released today. The book draws on papers at the Center for Jewish History in New York City.
McDonald was chairman of Roosevelt's advisory committee on refugees. He met Adolf Hitler in 1933 and was convinced the Nazi planned to exterminate Europe's Jews, prompting him to sound warnings. He later was the first U.S. ambassador to Israel.
Despite FDR's popularity with Jewish Americans, the influential 1984 book The Abandonment of the Jews: America and the Holocaust argued that he did little to save their European brethren.
Breitman says McDonald's papers soften that view, showing that in 1938, Roosevelt:
*Cut red tape that kept immigration quotas from being filled, allowing entry for 27,370 Germans -- most of them Jews.
*Hoped to resettle millions of Jews from Central and Eastern Europe to other countries, mostly in Latin America. He called an international conference to line up money and support.
*Promised to ask Congress for $150 million to help resettle refugees if Britain allowed more Jews into Palestine and private funds could be raised.
Roosevelt's efforts, including the conference in Evian, France, failed. Most countries refused to admit Jews amid a depression and anti-Semitism,  Breitman says. Opposition also was strong at the State Department and in Congress, which voted in 1939 not to let in 20,000 German Jewish children.
Breitman says Roosevelt is unfairly criticized for not supporting the bill and refusing to admit 900 Jewish refugees on the St. Louis, which sailed from Germany 70 years ago this month. Cuba, the U.S. and Canada turned away those on the "voyage of the damned," and the ship returned to Europe. Hundreds of passengers died in the Holocaust.
Roosevelt "made a decision to go for big results," Breitman says, adding that the president viewed letting in small numbers of Jews as "a gesture, not a solution" to the larger refugee problem.
In 1940, after the start of World War II in Europe, Roosevelt's priorities turned to national security, Breitman writes.
Rafael Medoff, director of the Wyman Institute, which studies America's response to the Holocaust, says the book won't absolve Roosevelt. He says FDR failed to take "concrete steps" such as giving Jewish refugees temporary haven in U.S. territories such as the Virgin Islands.
"Instead, sadly, the president who claimed to be a humanitarian and champion of the little man refrained from taking such lifesaving steps," he says.
Deborah Lipstadt, a Holocaust studies professor at Emory University in Atlanta, says the book will force historians to rethink their conclusions. "This is consensus-changing," she says. "He may deserve a lot more credit than he is getting." 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

599 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

August 22, 2007 Wednesday  
Regional Edition

Another Test in Iraq: Our Aid to Refugees

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 781 words

The Bush administration correctly asserts  that the entire Middle East, from royal palaces to terrorist camps, is watching the eventual outcome in Iraq to determine the state of American resolve. But the region is also taking a more immediate measure of America's commitment to its friends: our response to the Iraqi refugee crisis. And this, too, is a matter of national credibility and honor.
About 2 million Iraqis have been displaced within Iraq by sectarian violence and contagious fear; another 2 million have fled the country for Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt and beyond. According to the United Nations, a  steady flow of new refugees continues at about 50,000 each month. For the most part, these Iraqis are not concentrated in refugee camps but dispersed in poor urban areas of cities such as Damascus or Amman, making it difficult for humanitarian agencies to identify and reach them. 
The sudden arrival of hundreds of thousands of Iraqis creates tensions -- swamping education and health services, increasing prices and provoking suspicion. According to Kristele Younes of Refugees International, Lebanon has begun deportations. Some refugees in Jordan are in hiding for fear of raids. The eventual danger is clear: As some Palestinians have demonstrated, refugee populations can marinate in their grievances, succumb to radicalism and trigger broader conflict.
Over the past several months, the American response to this crisis has improved from dismal to minimal. The United States is funding its normal 30 percent of U.N. refugee efforts and cooperating more closely with UNICEF and the World Food Program. But these global initiatives amount to tens of millions of dollars of help to millions of refugees -- completely unequal to the scale of the need. American efforts to help internally displaced Iraqis through the International Organization for Migration were funded at a little more than $1 million last year, which Younes dismisses as "peanuts." And if America and its friends and allies do not provide practical help to refugees, Islamic radicals are adept at filling the gap.
A few members of Congress clearly are pressing this issue as a way to embarrass the president, on the theory that large refugee flows prove the security efforts in Iraq have failed. But the refugee problem actually reinforces a very different argument. As Ken Pollack of the Brookings Institution points out, an all-out Iraqi civil war could dramatically increase the number of Iraqi refugees. Neighbors such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia would find it difficult to hold back the flood. And the fragile sectarian balance of several Middle Eastern countries could be upset, causing serious destabilization. A precipitous American withdrawal from Iraq could make a miserable problem significantly worse.
But the credibility of one of the Bush administration's central arguments -- that America should not abandon Iraqis to chaos and genocide by leaving prematurely -- would be strengthened if America showed its commitment to displaced Iraqis now. Helping Iraqi refugees on a larger scale is not an embarrassing necessity. It is an opportunity to show consistency, humanitarian concern and constructive, long-term engagement in the Middle East. Rather than ceding leadership on this issue to Congress, the administration should develop a comprehensive approach -- increasing its own funding to aid refugees while pressing friends in the Middle East and Europe to do more as well.
To be convincing, this effort will need to start by removing a national embarrassment. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has recommended about 8,000 Iraqis for visas to the United States this year because they helped American forces and now live under threat of murder, kidnapping or  persecution. These Iraqis are being admitted in a trickle -- about 200 in the first half of this year -- largely because of terrorism concerns at the Department of Homeland Security. Screening of refugees is an important job -- so important that the appropriate officials should do it in a timely fashion and stop exposing America to contempt. If friends of America continue to be treated this way, we will face the world friendless.
When it comes to refugees, Iraq is not Vietnam. America has not abandoned the Iraqi people; there is no need for the permanent resettlement of hundreds of thousands; and we still hope for many refugees to voluntarily return as security improves. "We are not saying that efforts in Iraq are a failure," explains Younes, "or arguing it will succeed or not, but you can't deny the humanitarian consequences."
Addressing those consequences may make success more likely.
michaelgerson@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

600 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

August 16, 2007 Thursday  
Regional Edition

America's Duty to Iraq's Refugees

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 220 words

Regarding the Aug. 12 editorial "The Refugee Crisis":
The failure of the Bush administration to resettle a significant number of Iraqis is just one aspect of the overall mishandling of the Iraqi refugee crisis. In addition to resettling more Iraqis, the  United States must also see that assistance is provided to neighboring countries, especially Jordan and Syria, which are struggling to host more than 2 million refugees. The  United States should be a generous donor, but it should press its allies in Europe and the Middle East to respond, as well. 
If no assistance is provided, the situation will continue to deteriorate, with severe consequences for security in Iraq and throughout the region.
The refugees are having  trouble obtaining food, health care and education for their children and are becoming increasingly angry while languishing in exile. Seeing the lack of international response, neighboring countries are weighing closing their borders, a move that would leave more Iraqis at the mercy of the widespread violence in their country.
If the  United States wants to see a stable Iraq, it must take the lead in providing substantial assistance to the Iraqis who have fled, so that the unrest that has displaced them does not spread across the region.
SEAN MARIANO GARCIA
Advocate
Refugees International
Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
All Rights Reserved

602 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

July 26, 2007 Thursday

Refugee housing crisis spurs action

BYLINE: Lucinda Dillon Kinkead Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 803 words

   A formidable group of community and business leaders put their heads together Wednesday in an attempt to solve a looming housing crisis slated to displace hundreds of low-income Salt Lake residents -- mostly refugees resettled here from war-torn regions such as Somalia, Sudan and eastern Europe -- by the end of the summer.
Because of escalating rents and lost federal aid, tenants from up to 175 units of an apartment complex known to most as the Hartland, at 1700 South and Redwood Road, face moving elsewhere -- or to the streets -- and away from services on which they rely. Due to expiring leases and other problems, at least six dozen families -- many of them Bantu -- have already moved, and many more at the complex are facing imminent deadlines. 
Wednesday's session at the United Way offices was called to mull alternatives.
A possible answer? Purchasing the complex from its current owners.
"This crisis has touched all walks of life," said Rosemarie Hunter, director of the University Neighborhood Partnership, which has worked closely with residents of the apartment complex. "The fact that so many people came to the table shows the scope of this issue," Hunter said.
Bankers, educators, social workers, community leaders, refugee resettlement experts, University of Utah officials and representatives from the Catholic Diocese and LDS Church all gathered to see what could be done.
"Most everyone in the rooms saw the value in keeping that (property) affordable," said Robert Rendon, senior vice president and director of community reinvestment for Zions Bank.
About 50 concerned people who attended the meeting agreed someone must try to buy back the property, now renamed the Seasons at Pebble Creek, from a San Francisco-based group that recently bought it, raised rents $50 to $200 and is now renewing leases.
The meeting signaled formal efforts to do so, said Bill Crim, director of strategic initiatives and public policy for United Way, which organized the meeting. "This needs urgent attention."
For years, the collection of 300 apartments has been much more than a living space for its residents.
The complex is home to more than 1,000 adults and children from all over the world, including Africa, South America, central and eastern Europe and Mexico, as well as the United States.
More than 75 percent of the residents are non-native English speakers.
Hartland had been a resettlement site for the two primary refugee agencies in Salt Lake City. As a result, some of the units were subsidized for low-income residents.
In March, new owners increased the monthly rent. They also said that Section 8 vouchers, which subsidize rent, would no longer be accepted. After some lobbying by concerned groups, the owners and housing authorities were able to reach an agreement that vouchers from current residents would be accepted. But about 40 percent of residents there also have been supported by a federal rental assistance program that ends in August.
There is no replacement program, so there are no more funds to subsidize low rent for tenants.
Complicating the low-income issue is that many of the refugee residents have a significant learning curve when it comes to Western life. Many have lived in refugee camps for decades, and life skills that Americans take for granted -- technology, language, bill paying and other complications of contemporary living -- can take years for some refugees to learn.
Educators at area schools, social workers and a bevy of community groups came together early to help refugee children and adults with the difficult transitions.
Teams of faculty and students from the U. department of family and consumer studies began working early on with community partners and Hartland residents. They built a financial fitness program through the University Neighborhood Partnership-Hartland Center, an on-site campus where a variety of classes are offered in subjects like homebuyer education, health access, English as a second Language and early childhood programs.
"It's quite a unique situation there," Rendon said. "Those programs really help the families get oriented into our societies. If all those families are dispersed, it's going to be very difficult to rebuild that."
The new owners weren't present at Wednesday's meeting, but Zions Bank officials are in talks with them about buying the property, Rendon said.
Rendon couldn't say what the property is worth, but Salt Lake County property records show it valued at $10 million in 2005, $11.3 million in 2006 and proposed at $16.2 million value for 2007.
Also raised in discussion Wednesday is the sobering fact: This is not an isolated problem. "There are other affordable housing complexes up for sale," Crim said. And the community must find a proactive way to deal with these concerns, he said. E-mail: lucy@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

607 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Tribune Review

October 20, 2006 Friday

A reality check for Angelina Jolie

BYLINE: Michelle Malkin

LENGTH: 665 words

Hollywood actress and United Nations spokesmodel Angelina Jolie is wagging her finger at the West for its indifference to refugees. 
"It's a scandal, really, in such a rich world, that we are not even finding a way to help feed refugee families properly," Jolie vented in the latest issue of the U.N.'s Refugees Magazine. The movie star, a U.N. "goodwill ambassador" since 2001, singled out America and Australia as insensitive countries that are turning their backs on the persecuted. 
Many refugees have "died trying to get to the U.S. and Australia," she writes. "But we don't notice. We are simply affronted by their audacity."  
Jolie bemoaned a photo taken on an unidentified beach in Spain in 2002 that showed a couple relaxing under an umbrella not far from the washed-up corpse of a black man, presumably a refugee, but who knows? Her solution to this supposed crisis of callousness? "(M)ore resources invested in the regions the refugees first move to, so they don't feel they have to move on unless they really want to; and more resources for countries where peace has been established." 
Increasing aid to a corrupt global bureaucracy may give comfort to Hollywood liberals. How, by the way, does Jolie think peace is "established"? With a magic wand? By wishing it so? By relying on feckless blue helmets who coddle jihadists and other thugs? 
In the land of make-believe, Jolie's call to pour more tax dollars into the U.N. refugee agency's coffers might well help to stem the refugee tide. But in the real world, it will only perpetuate exploitation. The well-read actress ought to read up on the Kenyan bribery scandal that has plagued the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR. 
You want to talk about scandal? For years, U.N. staff members in Nairobi shook down African refugees seeking resettlement in North America, Europe and Australia while the U.N. looked the other way. The extortion racket charged up to $5,000 a head for resettlement rights. Belated investigations found that the scandal wasn't the result of a few rogue workers -- but of negligent management that created a ripe atmosphere for abuse. 
You want to talk about callousness? Tell it to female and child refugees across the Congo who have been victimized by sexual predators protected among the ranks of U.N. peacekeepers and civilian staff. Last year, 50 U.N. peacekeepers and U.N. civilian officers faced 150 allegations of sexual exploitation and rape in the Congo alone. The abuse is widespread among U.N. personnel -- from the Central African Republic to Bosnia and Eastern Europe. Again, these refugees were exploited while U.N. management fiddled. 
You want to talk about failing to take notice? As Claudia Rosett has reported in The Wall Street Journal, the U.N. refugee agency sits on its hands while 300,000 North Korean refugees have endured decades of abuse and hopelessness underground in China -- where the $4.4 million-funded UNHCR office is fortified against refugee intrusions. 
You want to talk about wasted resources? That $10 billion Saddam Hussein siphoned off in the U.N. Oil-for-Food debacle could have fed a lot of hungry people. 
Jolie excoriates the West for rethinking lax asylum and refugee policies in a post-Sept. 11 world (even as the U.S. has just announced it will take in 13,000 refugees from Burundi who have spent 30 years in Tanzania).  
But porous borders have aided jihadists from Bali to London to Berlin to Copenhagen to Melbourne to Boston. Unlike jet-setting celebrities, the rest of us can't fret about feeding every last one of the world's refugees when the survival of our own children's homeland is at stake. 
No amount of ignorant Hollywood guilt-tripping can whitewash the United Nations' abject humanitarian failures. And no sovereign country should apologize for taking steps to look after its own first. 
Angelina would do best to tuck her sanctimonious finger away and return to fantasyland. 
Michelle Malkin is author of the new book "Unhinged: Exposing Liberals Gone Wild." 

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 Tribune Review Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

612 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Refugees rich -- in gratitude

BYLINE: Doug Robinson Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 685 words

   "Oh, Amy, America, America; it's hard, but, oh, it is worth it for the peace of mind. My children can run and play." -- Saran, Salt Lake refugee
SOUTH SALT LAKE -- Down at the South Park Apartments, which is located by the railroad tracks, somewhere between nowhere and somewhere, the people don't have much, except their lives, and that is enough for now.
They are mostly refugees, people who have fled Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East to escape civil war and "ethnic cleansing." They all have a story that could fill a Hollywood blockbuster. 
Amy Wylie knows their stories. She knows all of the residents as if they were uncles and cousins. Called by her church to be a service missionary, this kindly, middle-aged mother of three is a mentor and friend to these refugees. She is here almost daily to help refugees navigate America and its morass of work permits, laws, welfare, doctor visits, school, jobs.
This morning, she stops first at the apartment of Zeinab, a tiny woman who speaks no English. Her husband was born in Afghanistan, she in Lebanon and her children in Syria. They were on the run until coming here seven years ago. When she sees Amy, she rushes out the door to greet her. "They're always glad to see me," says Amy. Zeinab searches her purse and pulls out her Utah I.D., which she shows to Amy, beaming.
"Oh, you got your I.D.!" and they exchange a hug for this simple victory.
Amy walks to another apartment where she finds Esther, a Liberian refugee who fled to a camp in Guinea. Amy calls each of the children by name, all nine of them. They rush to greet her at the door, wrapping tiny arms around her leg.
"We love them and so they love us," says Amy.
The carpet is dirty, the ceiling is cracked, the door handle is missing, the stove and toilet don't always work, but Esther says, "I'm glad to be here."
They lived in a refugee camp for 14 years waiting for asylum.
As she walks toward another apartment, Amy is talking about how badly more mentors are needed. She is not wealthy. She does not write checks for these people. She gives them time and energy. "I can't imagine life without it," she says. "We waste so much time. This gives it meaning. We're needed."
The level of commitment is up to the mentor. For her part, Amy invites the families to her home occasionally. In summer, they lounge on the lawn chairs in her yard as if it were a great luxury.
"It's like going to a nice resort for them," she says, her eyes welling with tears.
She stops by another apartment belonging to Saran and Joseph.
She was an accountant in Sierra Leone, he an economist. When civil war broke out, they were kidnapped by rebels and separated for almost a year. She bore their first child in a rebel camp. They were reunited and had another child. Then Joseph went to get work one day and didn't come home for three years. Saran gave birth to their third child in a camp in Ghana. When Saran and the children were granted asylum, they moved to America without Joseph. For more than a year she waited for him, never giving up hope he was alive, and finally he surfaced in Africa.
Amy sent out a mass e-mail soliciting help. An anonymous donor paid Joseph's passage to America. Amy watched the reunion at Salt Lake City International, where Joseph met his third child for the first time, taking her face in his hands and staring into her eyes.
Joseph and Saran are articulate, educated and hard-working.
Amy likes their chances of succeeding in the United States. They tend neighbor kids during the day; she attends night school to study accounting.
They plan to open a day-care center, but they need donations. They are grateful people. When a modest couch was presented to them, Saran protested, "It's too good for us."
Gratefulness is the currency of these people, Amy's payback.
One young man called her one day simply to say, "Thank you for loving me."
"People ask if these people want a lot," says Amy. "They just want love." And out of love comes her service. "Every single day I'm here, my life is better," she says. Doug Robinson's column runs on Tuesday. Please send e-mail to drob@desnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

614 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Pittsburgh Tribune Review

November 25, 2005 Friday

Refugees reborn in Pittsburgh

BYLINE: Andrew Conte

LENGTH: 810 words

Every day is a blessing for Bare Bule.  
More than a decade ago, he ran away from his home in Somalia by walking for 15 days to a refugee camp in bordering Kenya. For food and water, he stripped leaves from trees and eagerly lapped from muddy puddles of rainwater.  
Trapped in the refugee camp, he lived there about a dozen years, meeting his wife, marrying her and having five children -- two boys and three girls. But like his home in Somalia, where government soldiers killed his mother, father and brother, the camp never seemed safe enough.   
The glare of ethnic hatred has been no more than a bitter memory for the past year. Bule and his family were allowed into the United States last year, and Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Pittsburgh helped them move to the city along with 30 other Somali Bantu families.  
Bule, 42, now lives with his wife and children in a narrow rowhouse along an alley in Lawrenceville. He has a job turning license plates into handbags at a Hill District factory. His wife is expecting their sixth child, a boy, in about two weeks.  
Life remains far from perfect for Bule and the other Somali refugees as they struggle to find jobs and decent homes. But their arrival in Pittsburgh has given them hope.  
"I like America, first of all, because it is free and everybody helps you," Bule said through a translator. "You see new people, and they say, 'Welcome to America.' " 
Catholic Charities moved 184 Somali Bantus to Pittsburgh over a period of 18 months, starting in February 2004. It's part of an effort that has helped about 11,000 Somali Bantu refugees relocate throughout the United States.  
The Bantus are Africans without a nation. They descended from slaves taken to Somalia from Tanzania and Mozambique in the late 19th century, and became targets for attack when Somalia disintegrated into civil war in 1991.  
The Bantus fled the war by the thousands, walking hundreds of miles to refugee camps in Kenya. 
Pittsburgh has not received Somali Bantu immigrants since September, since the need for refuge has shifted to Meskhetian Turks fleeing Russia. Catholic Charities has helped more than 10,000 refugees settle in Western Pennsylvania over three decades, accepting people from Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe.  
"Our goal is self-sufficiency as quickly as possible," said John Miller, director of Catholic Charities' Refugee Services Program. "We don't have an approach of letting them sit at home and get used to it. We encourage a fast assimilation into American life."  
Although scattered between Lawrenceville and the North Side, the Somali Bantus have created a community. They elected a president, vice president and elders.  
While they do not expect any new immigrants now, their numbers are growing. About a dozen Somali Bantu babies have been born in Pittsburgh, and the group expects to hold its first wedding next month.  
Catholic Charities claims about 90 percent of the Somali Bantu men are working but several said they recently had been laid off. Others -- both men and women -- have found jobs working together in groups.  
Six men work at Little Earth Productions' factory in the Uptown section of the Hill District, mainly turning recycled license plates into handbags and purses. They joined a work force that already included refugees from Bosnia, Vietnam and other places. 
"A lot of people who are refugees have a good work ethic," said Ava DeMarco, owner and co-founder. "It works out well for us because we get great workers and it provides them with the opportunity to have a job in this country with people from their country." 
Another 15 Somali Bantus work at CleanCare, a laundry for hospital and hospitality linens, in Lawrenceville and the North Side. Susan Yakim, the director of human resources, hired one Somali Bantu woman who knocked on the door looking for work. She ended up hiring others as positions became available, and now they make up almost 10 percent of the work force.  
"They've been a really good addition to our little home," Yakim said.  
The Somali Bantu women have been teaching her phrases in their language, and she's helping them adjust to life in the United States.  
"We've started Americanizing them," she said. "They know what a high-five is now." 
Other than getting a day off from work, the Somali Bantus said they didn't plan any special gathering for Thanksgiving. As Muslims, they recently celebrated Ramadan, a monthlong period of daylight fasting and small evening dinners. 
Yet, they are eager students of another holiday tradition -- American football. 
Osman Mohamed, 26, said he has been to one Steelers game at Heinz Field, and he watches the other games on television. 
"Everybody from Africa, if he supports ball, he supports soccer," Mohamed said. "Now I try to support the Steelers because this is my city now, you know. I'm supporting my Steelers." 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 Tribune Review Publishing Company
All Rights Reserved

615 of 999 DOCUMENTS


Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

October 16, 2005 Sunday

'Exodus' in black and white: wrenching photos of displaced world citizens on display at Library Square

BYLINE: Dave Gagon Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 863 words

BETWEEN APRIL 6 and July 16 of 1994, a genocide of unprecedented fury and swiftness washed over the African nation of Rwanda. When it was over, more than 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus had been butchered, another 2 million had fled the country, and another million were displaced.
The world witnessed these 100 days of depravity through newspaper and magazine reports and TV news: it was horrific and often unbearable to view, and we wondered at the time, what will happen to the exiles?
Today, the question remains, but is more encompassing; what becomes of all the displaced refugees throughout the world, devastated by not only war, but by famine, natural disasters and the widening gap between the rich and poor? 
One of the more poignant answers to this query is "Exodus," a visually stunning, emotionally charged exhibit by international photographer Sebastiao Salgado, on display through Dec. 17 at The Leonardo at Library Square.
Presented by the Center for Documentary Arts, Salgado's inspiring black-and-white photographs chronicle the global movement of populations at the turn of the millennium.
Beginning in 1993, and continuing for the next six years, he worked among migrants, refugees and exiles across 40 countries in Africa, the Americas, Europe and Asia. He documented their places of origin, the circumstances of their flight and their uncertain destinations and destinies.
"Exodus," according to the exhibition essay, "is a reflection on the global phenomena that has broken down borders, created slums and refugee camps, and produced conflicts over employment and civil rights around the globe."
Born in 1944 in Aimores, Minas Gerais, Brazil, Salgado studied economics in his country and the United States. In 1971, he earned a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Paris. However, in 1973 -- after borrowing his wife's camera -- he traveled to Africa. The result of this photographic journey was Salgado changed careers: He became a photojournalist and today is known for his peerless images of man and his relationship to himself and the land.
Assembled and curated by his wife, Lelia Wanick Salgado, "Exodus" features 300 black-and-white photographs divided into five sections:
-- Migrants and Refugees: The Survival Instinct
-- The African Tragedy: A Continent Adrift
-- Latin America: Rural Exodus, Urban Disorder
-- Asia: The World's New Urban Face
-- The Children: 40 portraits of migrant, refugee and displaced children under the age of 15 from around the world.
In addition to detailing the aftermath of the Rwanda apocalypse, Salgado's exhibit tackles the displaced hordes in Angola who camp out near railroad tracks, in movie theaters, schools or museums, as well as the thousands of Mozambique exiles living in Tanzania.
"Exodus" also grapples with the Brazilian dilemma of five million rural workers unable to acquire land to work, and poverty-stricken Mexicans displaced by Zapatistas.
In the "Migrants and Refugees" section, Salgado starkly depicts the demise of Kabul, Afghanistan, since the Soviets abandoned the country in the late 1980s. Each armed faction that has conquered the city has provoked an exodus, and the images graphically portray just how little is left.
The same section includes a series of photographs of the Vietnamese boat people. Some 800,000 fled the country and Communist rule, only to wind up in permanent detention centers in some other Asian country.
During the "Exodus" project in 1994 in Mozambique, Africa, children would surround Salgado as he worked, hoping to have their picture taken one more time. According to photographer Kent Miles, exhibit project director, Salgado would "promise the children if they would line up and wait, he would take their photograph later."
Eventually Salgado discovered he had so many good portraits of children they deserved their own section in the show.
As the last segment in the exhibit, "The Children" is a compelling selection of 40 portraits, each with the ability to effect emotion. According to the photographer, the children look "beautiful, happy, proud, pensive or sad."
The artistry throughout the exhibit is superb, and even though Salgado is claimed to have been more interested in the message, each photograph is an extraordinary example of lighting and composition.
Salgado created "Exodus" in the hopes that "as individuals, as groups, as societies, we can pause and reflect on the human condition at the turn of the millennium. In its rawest form individualism remains a prescription for catastrophe. We have to create a new regimen of co-existence."
"Exodus" succeeds on every level, and the Center for Documentary Arts deserves praise for spearheading the two-year effort to bring this major exhibition to Salt Lake City. If you go . . .
What: "Exodus -- Photographs by Sebastio Salgado"
Where: The Leonardo at Library Square, 209 E. 500 South
When: Through Dec. 17
Dates/Times: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.; Wednesday, Friday, 10 a.m.-9 p.m.; Sunday, 1-5 p.m.
How much: $10 for adults; $7 for seniors, military, students, youths (12-17)
Phone: 531-9800
Web: www.theleonardo.org
Also: Not recommended for children under 12 due to mature content E-mail: gag@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

620 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

July 30, 2005 Saturday  
Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Europe: Romania: 450 Uzbek Refugees Arrive

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 69 words

About 450 Uzbek refugees who had sought sanctuary in Kyrgyzstan arrived in Timisoara, west of Bucharest, local officials said. At the request of the United Nations, Romania offered to host the refugees, survivors of the deadly crackdown of a popular uprising in the Uzbek city of Andijon in May, temporarily, and they are expected to stay for six months before going to the United States, Canada and other countries.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company

628 of 999 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

September 9, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Limiting refugee admissions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 63 words

Each year a proposed ceiling is established for refugee admissions to the USA. For fiscal year 2004 (1), the celing is set at 70,000 and is allocated to these geographic regions:
Latin America/Caribbean: 3,500
Europe and Central Asia: 13,000
Africa: 25,000
East Asia: 6,500
Near East/South Asia: 2,000
Reserve: 20,000
1 - Oct. 1, 2003 to Sept. 30, 2004

LOAD-DATE: September 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Shannon Reilly and Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (MAP)

TYPE: SNAPSHOT

Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.

629 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The New York Times

September 5, 2004 Sunday  
Late Edition - Final

Elfrieda Dyck, 87, Mennonite Who Helped Thousands Resettle

BYLINE: By The Religion News Service

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: SCOTTDALE, Pa., Sept. 3 

Elfrieda Dyck, a Canadian nurse who helped thousands of Mennonite refugees from Eastern Europe find new homes in South America, died here on Aug. 20. She was 87. 
 Her death was announced by the Mennonite Central Committee.
 Ms. Dyck and her husband, Peter, who survives her, served in Europe with the committee, a North American Mennonite relief and service agency, in and immediately after World War II. Their first assignment was at a boys' home in England, but as fighting concluded in Europe, they moved to the Continent, where they did relief work in the Netherlands.
 The Dycks, who both immigrated to Canada from Russia in the 1920's, encountered the streams of Mennonites fleeing Soviet oppression. At the start of World War II, Russia was home to 100,000 Mennonites, with others in neighboring countries.
 In 1947 and 1948, Ms. Dyck, who had been in charge of a 1,200-person refugee camp in Berlin, led more than 5,500 Mennonites in four ships to South America. Most went to Paraguay, but some also went to Brazil and Uruguay. Other refugees found their way to Canada or the United States, and some remained in Western Europe.
 The Dycks recounted their experiences in their 1991 book, ''Up From the Rubble'' (Herald Press).
 They settled in the United States, where she cared for their two daughters and eventually returned to nursing while he was an administrator for the Mennonite Central Committee and served several pastorates. But they also became well known in Mennonite circles for their public speaking and writing. 
 The Mennonite, the magazine of Mennonite Church USA, cited the Dycks as among the 20 most influential Mennonites of the 20th century.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elfrieda Dyck

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company

636 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

July 21, 2003 Monday  
 Late Edition - Final 

59 Years Ago, They Fled To an Internment Camp 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA ROWE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: MOUNT KISCO, N.Y., July 20  

It has been nearly 60 years, but to many of the Jews kept at an upstate New York refugee camp during World War II, the trauma is still too painful to discuss. Others, however, cannot say enough.
     Only 134 people survive from the group of nearly 1,000 who were shipped from Italy to an Army camp in Oswego by the United States government in the summer of 1944, and many of them were gathered here today at the home of Judy Goldsmith, daughter of a deceased camp survivor, to reconnect and reminisce. 
 The truth about Jewish internment in the United States is a little-known chapter in the history of World War II, and Ms. Goldsmith said she had opened her home to the former refugees as a way of honoring one of them -- her father, who never spoke about those 18 months in upstate New York, and of keeping the story alive. 
For Walter Greenberg, 70, talking about a childhood running from the Nazis was easy. But ittook him nearly four decades to speak about living behind a fence at Fort Ontario.
"I'd known what prison was. I'd lived behind bars in Italy. But I'd never known freedom," Mr. Greenberg said. "In America, I looked out at the rest of the world and I saw normal people with everyday lives, and I felt deceived."
Not that it was a terrible experience. Compared with living one step ahead of the SS it was heaven, the survivors said. Each family had its own barracks, plenty of food and eventually access to education. After a one-month quarantine, Mr. Greenberg and the other children were allowed to attend classes at Oswego's elementary and high schools. Social workers came to teach their parents English. And the people of Oswego were endlessly generous. 
Nevertheless, the experience of being rounded up and enclosed behind a fence topped with barbed wire left its mark.
"They came here thinking they would be welcomed," Ms. Goldsmith said. "And these were the only people that America -- this big, powerful country -- even tried to save. It's pretty shameful."
In Washington, knowledge of concentration camp realities had been documented, but isolationist government policy had barred most European Jews from entering the country. In June 1944, however, after the Allies liberated Italy, President Franklin D. Roosevelt commissioned an Army ship, the Henry Gibbins, to transport the refugees to America. On July 21, 59 years ago, the ship left Naples, arriving in New York on Aug. 3. 
Those hiding in Italy who had already escaped concentration camps were accepted first. After these came families with young children. Three thousand people applied for just under 1,000 slots.
Ruth Gruber, who, as a special assistant to Interior Secretary Harold L. Ickes, had been dispatched to Italy to escort the refugees, said an American official charged with choosing among them "went to pieces."
"I can't go on playing God; how can I choose who's going to live and who's going to die?" the official said, according to Ms. Gruber, 91. 
The final tally from the ship's log of 983 refugees included Jews from 18 countries and 108 Roman Catholics, Protestants and Russian and Greek Orthodox. Listed upon their arrival in New York as "U.S. Army casual baggage," each had to sign papers promising to return to Europe when the war was over. Fewer than 100 actually did.
Abraham Dresdner, now 74, and his eight siblings were among those selected. His brother Rudy also attended the reunion. By the time he boarded the Henry Gibbins, Abraham Dresdner, 15, had been in and out of three French concentration camps and had seen other children running from the Nazis, parts of their bodies already blown off. But boarding a boxcar for an unknown town in central New York State created its own special fear.
"Of course we were scared," he said. "After all, trains were not a popular thing for us in Europe."
At several points along the journey from Naples to Oswego, however, the refugees were greeted by Red Cross workers bearing milk, cookies and ice cream. "We had all this food, so we knew it wasn't a concentration camp," Mr. Dresdner said.
Without official standing in America, the refugees were detained for seven months after the war was over until President Harry S. Truman allowed them to apply for citizenship. 
By then, 23 babies had been born, one couple had married and at least two teenage boys had managed to sneak out and hitchhike to Manhattan for a day of adventure. All of their stories have been captured at the Safe Haven Museum and Education Center in the former Fort Ontario administration building, which opened recently.
"This was a story that for so long was untold," said Judy Coe-Rapaport, president of the museum's fund-raising arm. "And it really should have been told."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Abraham Dresdner, 74, had been in three concentration camps in France. He was 15 when he boarded the Henry Gibbins, the ship that brought the refugees to New York.; Ruth Gruber, 91, was an assistant to Interior Secretary Harold L. Ickes when she was dispatched to Italy in 1944 to escort the 983 refugees, most of whom were Jews, to Fort Ontario in Oswego, N.Y.; Rudy Dresdner, left, and Walter Greenberg were among 983 European refugees who spent 18 months at an internment camp in Oswego, N.Y. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company

643 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

January 20, 2003 Monday Final Edition

Head of group that helps refugees

SOURCE: AP

SECTION: News; Pg. E13

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

Charles Sternberg, who fled Nazi persecution and went on to head the largest private American refugee-assistance organization, has died. He was 91. 
Sternberg was executive director of the International Rescue Committee from 1965 to 1985. Under his stewardship, the organization's budget rose from $1.2 million U.S. to $22.1 million.
The group has helped feed, shelter and resettle millions of refugees around the world, from Cuba and Latin America to Southeast Asia, the former Soviet bloc and Africa.
Sternberg, who died Thursday, was born in 1911 in Moravia, which was then part of the Austrian empire. He studied law in Prague before working for 20th Century Fox there.
In 1938, Sternberg fled to France. After the Nazis stormed Paris, he bicycled to Marseille, France, where he helped others escape the country. He fled to the United States in 1942.
Sternberg joined the United States army and spent the rest of the war years working for the Czech-language division of its Office of European Economic Research. He then joined the International Rescue Committee, working first in Germany and then in New York.
His wife, Irma Kadmon, also worked for the organization.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
CanWest Global Communications Corp.
All Rights Reserved

645 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

September 4, 2002 Wednesday Home Edition

REMEMBER 9/11: THE QUEST FOR ASYLUM: Fears over security strand refugees

BYLINE: DON MELVIN

SOURCE: Cox Washington Bureau

SECTION: Atlanta & the World; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 1076 words

London --- Every war has untended consequences. Advocates say the "collateral damage" in the war against terrorism has included some of the world's most vulnerable people: refugees fleeing persecution in their homelands.
"Sept. 11 came at a time when there was already increasing negativity toward refugees and asylum seekers," said Eve Lester, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International, the London-based human rights group. "Sept. 11 has added a complicating factor to an already difficult situation."
In the months since the terrorist attacks, the United States has dramatically slowed its refugee resettlement program. Other countries have followed suit. 
The result is that people in fear of persecution often languish in refugee camps where they cannot live safe or productive lives. The risks in refugee camps are well documented. Recently, rapes have been reported in camps in Kenya, and in April two Rwandan refugee children were murdered in Nairobi. In Guinea, security is so poor that food aid sometimes does not reach those who need it most.
Those who work with refugees realize that countries need to keep their people safe. But they note that none of the people involved in the Sept. 11 attacks entered the United States as a refugee.
"As a colleague of mine said: Sitting in a refugee camp would not be the most intelligent way to come here as a terrorist, because you could sit there for years," said Bob Carey, a vice president of the International Rescue Committee, which helps resettle refugees in the United States.
After the attacks, the U.S. refugee program was halted for two months. In late November, President Bush said the country would accept 70,000 refugees during the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.
But as of July 31, only 20,417 had been let in. Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service acknowledge that they will not come close to the goal of 70,000.
"Who are these 50,000 people who won't get to come?" asked Lavinia Limon, who directs the U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group. "Most are children and vulnerable women living in very precarious situations. Now they are waiting around for these security clearances. It's very disturbing from a humanitarian point of view."
Limon also is concerned by anti-immigrant rhetoric that has cropped up in European countries.
"I'm very worried refugees will become collateral damage in the war on terrorism," she said. "These are people who by definition are fleeing terror. Without U.S. leadership, the concern is that countries will become so cautious that as a whole the community of nations won't live up to its obligations."
INS officials cite several reasons for the slowdown: Two months were lost before Bush decided on the number. More stringent fingerprinting requirements mean that no more than 35 refugees can arrive on one plane, and they can land at only five U.S. airports: Chicago; Miami; Los Angeles; Newark, N.J.; and John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.
"We're trying to balance security and safety with offering a safe haven to those fleeing persecution," said Kimberly Weissman, an INS spokeswoman.
The slowdown has had effects around the world.
Refugees from Latin America and the Caribbean are having much more difficulty reaching the United States, even though most countries in the region have no history of terrorism directed at United States.
"There's all kind of fingerprinting and background checks going on," said Randy McCrory, an attorney for Catholic Legal Services in Miami who works with refugees and immigrants. "Across the board, it's a much more cumbersome process."
The new restrictions come as the numbers of would-be immigrants from Latin America are swelling due to economic turmoil in Argentina, political instability in Venezuela and the long-running guerrilla war in Colombia.
For Mexico, one casualty of the war on terrorism has been the collapse of progress toward a migration accord with the United States. President Vicente Fox is still pursuing an agreement that might offer legal work visas to up to several million undocumented Mexicans currently working in the United States. But progress froze after Sept. 11.
It is not only the United States that has tightened control of its borders. Asylum seekers from Asia and the Middle East who once saw Australia as an attractive target are looking elsewhere because Australia's stance toward refugees has hardened in the past year.
Shortly before the Sept. 11 attacks, Prime Minister John Howard's government refused entry into its waters to a boatload of mostly Afghan refugees who had been rescued from a sinking ferry. Since then, more boats filled with asylum seekers have been turned away.
Howard's policies have received support thanks to anti-immigrant sentiment heightened by fears of terrorism. His stance even helped him win re-election last November after he had appeared headed for defeat. Australia says potential asylum seekers now head for other countries, especially in Europe.
But European countries are hardening their attitudes as well. Recently, Britain said it would begin to deport Afghans who fail to prove their asylum claims. Italy has said it will use its term as president of the European Union in 2003 to push to tighten the borders of the entire 15-nation confederation.
The restrictions have hit particularly hard in Africa, source of many of the world's refugees. And Africans are not languishing in refugee camps only. The number of internally displaced people within African countries seems to be increasing, said Roberta Cohen, a senior adviser to the U.N. secretary-general's representative for internally displaced persons.
Many advocates are lobbying the Bush administration to set the goal for next year at 100,000 new refugees.
"In some ways this is about who we are as a nation," said Limon of the U.S. Committee for Refugees. "If we stand for freedom, then we have to be willing to share it with this small number of people deemed as those most in trouble in the world."
That holds not only for the United States, but for the rest of the world, too, said Lester of Amnesty International.
"If we sell out now the basic rights that people have to protection," she said, "then in a sense we sell our souls."
Cox Newspapers correspondents Mike Williams in Miami, Julie Chao in Beijing and Susan Ferriss in Mexico City contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: REMEMBER 9/11

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghan girls attend a school in a refugee camp near Peshawar, Pakistan, last year. Hardening attitudes and fears about security in the wake of Sept. 11 have left refugees facing new hurdles./ SHABBIR HUSSAIN IMAM / Associated Press; Graphic: REFUGEE MAXIMUMS
The maximum number of refugees that can be admitted to the U.S. in fiscal 2002, by region.
Africa..................... 22,000
East Asia................... 4,000
Eastern Europe................9,000
Former Soviet Union..........17,000
Latin America/Caribbean..... 3,000
Near East/South Asia....... 15,000
Reserve*......................4,000 (approximately)
*Admissions are set aside for an emergency situation.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service / Staff
ME: Part of the fourth installment of the eleven-part series REMEMBER 9/11 commemorating the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, September 11, 2001.

TYPE: Series

Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

648 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

June 12, 2002 Wednesday Home Edition

Updates: Interntional news affecting Atlanta

BYLINE: MONI BASU, MARK BIXLER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Atlanta & the World; Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 764 words

CARE project helps 120,000 Afghans
About 120,000 Afghans benefited from an emergency shelter and rehabilitation project recently completed by CARE, the Atlanta-based humanitarian agency.
The project, funded by the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid Office, created jobs for 8,000 people and improved sanitation in Kabul, the Afghan capital. CARE officials said workers removed roughly 16 million cubic feet of trash, dug 125 miles of drainage ditches and resurfaced 100 miles of roads with gravel.
CARE also provided materials to help thousands of Afghans repair war-damaged homes. 
But CARE's work is far from done, said Sally Austin, assistant country director for CARE in Afghanistan. The organization estimates that more than 5 million Afghans need humanitarian aid to survive --- with 20 percent of them children under the age of 5.
For more about CARE's work in Afghanistan, go to www.care.org.
Mental health care for refugees
More than 200 people from around the country met in Atlanta this week for a conference on helping refugees who need mental health treatment. Participants talked about art therapy for trauma victims and how cultural views of health care affect a refugee's ability to get care in the United States.
The conference was sponsored by the National Alliance for Multicultural Mental Health of the Immigration and Refugee Services of America and Bridging the Gap, an Atlanta nonprofit that works with refugees and immigrants.
The federal government has resettled about 48,000 refugees in Georgia since 1981.
Atlanta firm to hire 'Lost Boys'
An Atlanta company with global sales of $2.6 billion announced a plan Tuesday to employ several refugees from the southern Sudan. Executives at AFC Enterprises Inc. unveiled a partnership with the Lost Boys Foundation, an Atlanta nonprofit founded by Mary Williams, the adopted daughter of Jane Fonda. The goal is to put several refugees in a management training program at fast-food restaurants in metro Atlanta. AFC owns 3,896 restaurants and bakeries, including outlets of Church's Fried Chicken, Popeye's Chicken & Biscuits and Cinnabon. The jobs will go to several refugees in a group known as the Lost Boys of Sudan. The federal government resettled about 3,800 Lost Boys around the country last year, including about 140 in metro Atlanta.
Former Sudan rebel to speak
Luka Hol walked out of Sudan to Ethiopia as a teenager to train to be a soldier. The Sudan People's Liberation Army taught him for nine months, but he was too young to go home and fight in the civil war against Khartoum's Islamic government.
Instead Hol went to a Cuban military college for two years before rejoining the Sudanese rebels for four years. Now a student at Kennesaw State University, Hol will share some of his war experiences and reflect on the situation in Sudan at a talk Thursday night. It begins at 7:30 p.m. at Villa International Conference Room (first floor), 1749 Clifton Road. For more information, call 770-435-6320.
Diverse crowd at Supercomm
A sagging global telecommunications industry led to lower overall attendance at last week's Supercomm 2002, but more international delegates participated this year, organizers of the high-tech expo said.
Visitors from 99 countries attended the exhibition at the Georgia World Congress Center with the biggest representation from Canada, China and Israel. Jagdish Sheth, professor at Emory University's Goizueta Business School, credited more direct flights to Atlanta as among the reasons for the larger international attendance.
Carter Center hails Mali poll . . .
The Carter Center praised peaceful elections in Mali as a "critical point in its democratic development." However, the center noted many irregularities, including a cumbersome and unevenly transparent tabulation system and procedural irregularities. Former junta leader Amadou Toumani Toure, who won 64 percent of the vote in a May 12 runoff, was sworn in for a five-year term Saturday. A statement said the Carter Center "hopes that Mali's political institutions will operate effectively, while maintaining important checks and balances between the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government."
. . . awaits Jamaica elections
Next, the Carter Center will observe parliamentary elections in Jamaica. A pre-election mission visited Jamaica last week to assess electoral conditions and meet with election officials, political party leaders, security forces and representatives of civil society and the media. No election day has been set.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese employees (from left) Mayumi Sasaki, Mami Ihara and Yuki Shingyoji were among the large number of international delegates attending Supercomm this year./ ANDY KJELLGREN / Staff

TYPE: Briefs

Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

649 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

February 19, 2002 Tuesday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Tougher Policies on Refugees 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 605 words

Today 35 million people worldwide are fleeing war or persecution. The last time the number was this high, World War II was raging. Yet many countries are hardening their refugee policies. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees must cut its services -- which already fall far short of the need -- by 10 percent because contributions from the European Union have dropped. Even as wealthy countries cut back their financing for food, health and education in refugee camps, they are also taking in fewer people. Nations like the United States, Denmark and Australia, historically open to the persecuted, are now closing the doors. 
     Refugees are less popular than ever because of post-Sept. 11 security worries. But the concern is misguided; only the most incompetent terrorist would try to enter a Western nation as a refugee. A tiny percentage of refugees are accepted and the process takes years, much of that time spent living in a squalid camp. In addition, refugees coming to America have always undergone far more thorough background checks than people entering on student, tourist or business visas. 
 Australia's shift has aroused the most controversy, because it was so blatantly -- and successfully -- a campaign device for Prime Minister John Howard's center-right Liberal Party. Mr. Howard sent asylum seekers, mainly those fleeing Afghanistan and Iraq, to neighboring countries for temporary detention and then tightened asylum laws. Mr. Howard is now under attack for campaign statements asserting that heartless refugees had been throwing their children overboard. He acknowledges that this was untrue but said he believed it at the time. 
Sadly, Australia is not alone. Well before Sept. 11 European countries were tightening border controls, aiming to keep people out so they cannot even ask for asylum. One reason for the shift is that conservative parties are winning power and anti-immigrant parties have gained support.
Denmark is one example. The new center-right leadership, pushed by an anti-foreigner party that has doubled its parliamentary representation, has promised to limit the number of foreigners in the country. This is especially important because Denmark is to assume the rotating six-month presidency of the European Union later this year, and will have a strong influence over Europe's refugee policies.
In the United States, each year the president sets a maximum number of refugees America will accept. The figure has been declining for the last 20 years -- it is now 70,000, down from 200,000 in the mid-1980's. Priorities for entry are still tilted toward the cold war -- one of the largest groups admitted, for example, is Jews from the former Soviet Union, not among those in the most dire need today. In addition, the number of refugees accepted is always less than the ceiling, a policy some compare to launching lifeboats from the Titanic with some seats empty. After Sept. 11, refugee resettlement essentially stopped as increased security measures were put in place. It has restarted, but at a much slower pace. While the transition to more security should be temporary, the continuing degradation of protections for refugees is not. 
Taking in refugees may not be popular in hard economic times, but it is the right thing to do. Moreover, prosperous countries like the United States and Australia have found that refugees and their children can become among their most devoted and productive citizens. Western nations more and more are adopting the view that refugees are not victims in need of sanctuary but a political problem to be solved by keeping them anywhere but here. 

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2002  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

651 of 999 DOCUMENTS



The Washington Post

November 18, 2001 Sunday  
Final Edition

Don't Stop Refugee Resettlement

BYLINE: Tom Gerety

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 611 words

 Foreigners come across our borders every day, by boat and plane, in cars and on foot. They come as students, workers, tourists, family and friends. We know that many of them will stay, with or without visas. 
 Every so often one will be here to do harm to the United States. Among the hundreds of thousands who come each year, relatively few -- fewer than 70,000 last year -- are refugees, people who have been certified by officers of our government as fleeing "persecution" on the basis of race, religion or ideas.  
 Late last month it was revealed that on Sept. 11, for the first time since the Cold War, the United States had stopped all refugee travel to the United States. Right now, somewhere in the White House, an assistant to President Bush has a draft letter reauthorizing the admission of refugees. But Bush will not sign the letter until a security clearance is issued by the Justice Department for all those waiting to be admitted. That could take days or months, even years, depending on our "insecurity," our fear, of the small group of desperate people officially certified to have "a well-founded fear of persecution" under the United Nations Convention of 1951. 
 Who are these people? What sort of persecution are they fleeing? Many or most of them are women -- from Afghanistan and Africa, with small children in tow. They have spent months and years in refugee camps in Pakistan or Africa, Europe or Asia. A few are religious refugees from various places around the globe: Jews from Ukraine, Christians and Baha'is from Iran. Many are dissidents whose ideas have seemed threatening to dictators. 
 All of them have been interviewed extensively before receiving approval from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Any hint of a terrorist inclination would have disqualified them long ago. (Lavinia Limon, the head of Immigrant and Refugee Services of America, notes that terrorists have many more efficient ways to get to America than by long stays in refugee camps, testifying over and again to instances of religious or sexual persecution.) 
 Sept. 11 changed many things; all of us accept that. But it should not change everything, as the president said and as so many others have said. Among the things that should not change are America's ideals. And among the ideals that we count as distinctively, even essentially, American is that represented by the Statue of Liberty out in New York Harbor, looking back on the site of our great national catastrophe: the ideal of a haven for the oppressed, the persecuted, those seeking refuge in America from tyranny at home. 
 To hold up the refugees for a few days was understandable and even laudable. Our airports and our towns were not in a position to take in desperately poor people in the midst of a great crisis. But now, as the crisis evolves toward a new sense of vigilance that will hold for many years, we need to return to our most fundamental and symbolic commitments in international law. Shelter for refugees is something America must stand for, in days of crisis and days of calm, in peace as in war. 
 Our churches and charities have already identified places of resettlement for the refugees whose plans were made and approved before Sept. 11. Such organizations as the United States Catholic Conference, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services and the International Rescue Committee have social workers, schools, jobs and housing arranged. 
 It is time for the president to issue his letter of authorization and allow these new Americans to come to the land of the free. 
 The writer is president of Amherst College and a member of the board of the International Rescue Committee. 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The Washington Post

653 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

November 8, 2001 Thursday, Home Edition

Embrace refugees in our land

BYLINE: CLARE RICHIE

SOURCE: For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 22A; INTERNATIONAL ATLANTA

LENGTH: 659 words

Prior to Sept. 11, refugees living in Atlanta were the teachers, nurses, cashiers, janitors and housekeepers who gave meaning to the phrase "American melting pot."
Now, suddenly, refugees are shunned and labeled "other." Yet, at no other time in recent memory have American citizens had more in common with refugees than now. Both know terror. 
Take Ali Abdulilah Hamzah, an electrician and shopowner who fled Iraq in 1999 after spending nearly 10 years in prison. Arrested and sentenced to 25 years for being anti-government, Hamzah spent his youth in a tiny, one-room cell with 56 other inmates.
Or Abdul Rahman Mohamad Molla, an engineer who five years ago fled his home in Kabul, Afghanistan, when he learned that the Taliban was questioning his neighbors and seeking his arrest. Having attended university in Russia, Molla was accused of being a Communist by the anti-Communist Taliban regime. Together with his wife and three children, Molla walked for four days to Mazar-e-Sharif near the Russian border. He eventually made his way to Moscow where he was forced to bribe Moscow police for his family's survival.
Often the primary targets of persecution in their native countries, refugees find themselves in danger of the same sort of physical, mental and discriminatory abuse in their new American homes. While only a few Americans --- motivated by fear, prejudice and misinformation --- have perpetrated violence upon refugees or immigrants, such acts, whether national or personal, awaken buried memories of sadness and despair. As war rages in Afghanistan, refugees from the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa are particularly fearful.
A refugee is someone who has fled his or her homeland because of a "well-founded fear" of persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, social group or political opinion. In light of recent events, many people in the United States fear that foreigners, many of whom are refugees or asylum seekers, are potential threats to American society and that their entrance into the United States and other Western nations should be curbed. However, most are not aware that refugees go through a very lengthy screening process and background check that can take five years.
Although there are more than 14.5 million refugees and asylum seekers and nearly 25 million internally displaced persons worldwide, the U.S. accepts 70,000 annually. These refugees come from, among other countries, Somalia, Sudan, Iran, Iraq, Vietnam, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
Refugees are farmers, shopkeepers, students, scientists, journalists, professionals, politicians, doctors, teachers, mothers, children and the elderly. They are taxpayers, neighbors and fellow countrymen. Albert Einstein, Henry Kissinger, Sigmund Freud and Madeleine Albright were refugees, to name but a few.
Never has there been a more important time for us as American citizens to show our solidarity with these victims of organized and random forms of terrorism. If you are an employer, consider hiring a refugee by contacting a local refugee support office. If you are a teacher, consider implementing culturally sensitive lessons into your curriculum.
Make a donation that will assist refugees who are financially vulnerable in these unstable economic times. A coalition of nonprofits has organized to help refugees and immigrants and includes the following groups: African Community and Refugee Center, Amnesty International USA, the Christian Council of Metropolitan Atlanta, Clarkston Community Center, DeKalb Board of Health, International Rescue Committee, Jewish Family and Career Services, Newcomers Network, Lutheran Ministries of Georgia and Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Atlanta.
At the very least, practice the religious and cultural tolerance that has always been the hallmark of our American democracy. Clare Richie is regional director of International Rescue Committee in Atlanta.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution

661 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

June 4, 2001 Monday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Wells Klein, 74; Worked to Help Refugees 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 271 words

Wells C. Klein, a longtime advocate for the rights of immigrants and refugees wanting to settle in the United States, died April 5 at his home in Stowe, Vt. He was 74. 
     Mr. Klein had spent most of his life reorganizing and reinvigorating groups set up to help refugees and immigrants. He also fought for stronger legislation to protect them. 
 In 1975 he took over the American Council for Nationalities Service, a largely moribund organization that had originally assisted refugees from Eastern Europe. He turned it into a major resettlement agency, which helped many of the 130,000 Southeast Asian refugees in the United States after the Vietnam War.
In 1981 he revived another almost inactive body, the U.S. Committee for Refugees, and absorbed it into the American Council's structure. The committee now publishes an annual World Refugee Survey. The American Council became the Immigration and Refugee Services of America.
He worked with Congress on the Refugee Act of 1980, which for the first time codified the definition of a refugee. In the early 1980's, Mr. Klein helped establish the National Immigration Forum, an organization promoting the rights of immigrants and refugees.
Born in New Haven, Mr. Klein served in the Navy during World War II and then attended Sarah Lawrence College and Cornell University, where he studied anthropology. He began his career with refugees working for CARE. 
Mr. Klein, who never married, is survived by his brother, Malcolm, of Los Angeles, and his nieces, Laurie Klein of Northboro, Mass., and Leigh Vanderklein of Montclair, N.J. A memorial service will be held July 12 in Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

NAME: Wells Klein 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wells Klein, left, with the Rev. Robert Charlesbois discussing refugees. (Associated Press, 1973)      

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

663 of 999 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

February 9, 2001, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Haven,' despite faults, is a war story that must be told

BYLINE: Robert Bianco

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 502 words

Haven
CBS, Sunday and Wednesday 9 p.m. ET/PT
* * * (out of four)
---
Even in the face of unspeakable horror, a few brave people find
their voices.
Based on a memoir by Ruth Gruber, Haven is the story of
an American woman's battle to lead a small group of Holocaust
refugees to safety in the United States -- a temporary arrangement
she helped make permanent. The movie, sadly, is more pedestrian
than Gruber deserves, despite the star power lent by Natasha Richardson. 
But it's still a story worth hearing.
Haven opens in 1944, as young Ruth (Richardson) persuades
the secretary of Interior (Hal Holbrook) to let her escort a group
of refugees from Italy to America. For Ruth, a Brooklyn-born Jew,
the trip triggers memories of her years as a student in Germany
in the '30s, and her love affair with a German Christian (Sebastian
Roche).
Every step of the way, Ruth faces resistance. Instead of the 1,000
refugees she expected, the army approves 982 (not all of them
Jewish, a fact the film obscures). The soldiers on the ship carrying
the refugees resent them. The State Department hopes to bury their
tales of Nazi persecution, afraid they would provoke demands to
do more. Things hardly improve when they reach America. The refugees
are confined to a camp, where they're meant to wait out the war
and then return home.
Against all odds, Ruth keeps pushing. There are setbacks and tragedies,
but ultimately our better natures win out -- too predictably and
precisely, but powerfully all the same. It's not a great victory;
it's just much more than most people accomplished.
Amid a fine cast, the standout is Richardson, all brass on the
outside, scared underneath. She does seem to overdo the Brooklyn
accent, but maybe it's just jarring because the actors playing
her parents (Martin Landau and Anne Bancroft) hardly use one.
Haven is at its best when it's exploring the moral ambivalence
at the core of its story, as when Ruth tries to shame some bigoted
soldiers and finds their prejudice shields them from embarrassment.
The film also does a good job of parceling out the refugees' stories,
allowing each atrocity to register before an even more horrid
one takes its place.
If only Haven had more faith in the power of those stories
as Gruber told them. Instead, writer Suzette Couture (who did
a similarly damaging adaptation in Jesus) inflates some
incidents and invents others. A woman who in real life fell into
despair because she left children behind in Europe is now ashamed
because she had sex with a Nazi -- as if that were worse.
The film's biggest mistake, however, is the out-of-proportion
attention it pays to Gruber's German love affair, an exaggerated
version of a story told in another book. The inevitable effect
is to equate her loss with that of the refugees, and that is untenable.
Gruber knew the power and the limits of what she did. What a shame
Haven lacks her vision.

LOAD-DATE: February 09, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Monty Brinton, CBS; Guardian angel: Natasha Richardson portrays Ruth Gruber, who rescued Jewish refugees during WWII.

TYPE: TV PREVIEW

Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.

664 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The New York Times

February 7, 2001 Wednesday  
 Late Edition - Final 

Bucking U.S. Officialdom To Shelter Wartime Jews 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Feb. 6  

Television series about the Holocaust have been rare. The handful of acclaimed ones, like "Holocaust" and "War and Remembrance," have dealt only marginally with what some historians call the United States' wartime indifference to the slaughter of millions of Jews. "Haven" does not shy away from the issue.
     The four-hour CBS mini-series, to be broadcast on Sunday and on Feb. 14 from 9 to 11 p.m., deals with the experience in 1944 of a young Jewish official in the Interior Department, Ruth Gruber, who flew to Europe to escort nearly 1,000 terrified Jews to an Army camp in Oswego, N.Y. Although her job had nothing to do with immigration, Ms. Gruber persuaded United States government officials that she should escort the refugees on their journey from Europe. What she encountered was not only the horrors of the Holocaust but also the hostility and, at worst, she said, anti-Semitism of top officials at the State Department and other agencies who delayed the visas of tens of thousands of people who ultimately perished in German-run death camps.  
 Ms. Gruber is now 89 and lives in Manhattan. "The indifference haunts me, it haunts me every day," she said on a recent visit to Pasadena to talk with television critics and journalists. "They knew what was going on. They knew about the death camps. We could have saved hundreds of thousands. It was overt anti-Semitism, plain and simple."
Natasha Richardson plays Ms. Gruber, who, while working for Interior Secretary Harold Ickes, convinced her boss as well as other officials to bring the nearly 1,000 European refugees to the United States as "guests" of the government. The journey is one of self-discovery for Ms. Gruber as she encounters the dual realities of the Holocaust and the American response to it.
Although the United States admitted 250,000 Jews between 1933 and 1945, according to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, some historians and others say the American response to the Holocaust was minimal and left hundreds and thousands, if not millions of others at the mercy of the Nazis. The United States position on immigration reflected the isolationism of the time.
Ms. Gruber is a retired journalist who has written 15 books, with subjects ranging from Israel's war of independence to the plight of Korean orphans. "The quotas for Jews were very strict," she said. "The delays condemned them to death."
Included in the cast are Anne Bancroft and Martin Landau as Ms. Gruber's parents; Hal Holbrook as her sympathetic boss, Mr. Ickes; and William L. Petersen, a star of the CBS television series "C.S.I.," as a member of the War Refugee Board. The mini-series, directed by John Gray, was adapted by Suzette Couture from Ms. Gruber's book "Haven: The Dramatic Story of 1,000 World War II Refugees and How They Came to America."
Ms. Richardson said: "What shocked me was not only the indifference of the United States, but also England and Ireland and so many other countries. They knew what was going on. They didn't want to rock the boat. It was nothing less than fear and prejudice."
To support this belief, Ms. Gruber and many scholars point to cables from State Department officials, the most notable one from Breckinridge Long, a wealthy Maryland horse breeder and Democratic donor who was appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to serve as assistant secretary overseeing visas. Long, who died in 1958, has been singled out in various books as the Roosevelt administration official most responsible for keeping thousands of Jews out of the United States, even if their visas were in order.
The pretext of the State Department was that it feared that Nazi spies might be hiding among the refugees. Officials also perceived the refugees as ethnically and politically undesirable. In a famous 1940 internal memo, now released, Long told consulates to "postpone and postpone and postpone" the granting of visas and to "put every obstacle in the way" of applicants. 
Some historians have said that President Roosevelt was preoccupied with destroying the German war machine and that it was unfair to single him out as being indifferent to the plight of the Jews. Others disagree, saying that the government's lack of a concerted response to the Holocaust, coupled with overt anti-Semitism at the State Department, remains a blot on the Roosevelt administration.
David S. Wyman, an author and retired professor of history at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and an expert on American policy and the Holocaust, said in an interview: "The issue of rescue was of low-level importance. There was a whole group in the State Department that was essentially opposed to immigration because of a very strong animus to people from Eastern and Southern Europe, particularly Jews. F.D.R. was worried about the possibility of a backlash for helping Jews. But what does that say about leadership, and what does it say about Roosevelt the humanitarian?"
Allegations that Roosevelt was indifferent to the Jews have been called unfair by several historians, among them Arthur Schlesinger Jr. "If you look in the larger context, no one did more to save the Jews in Europe than Franklin Delano Roosevelt by his opposition to Hitler, by changing the United States from an isolationist nation to a nation prepared to go to war," Mr. Schlesinger said in 1994 after the PBS documentary "America and the Holocaust: Deceit and Indifference" asserted that the United States, with its restrictive immigration laws and isolationist mood, had shrugged off the plight of European Jews.
"Haven" is not the only television drama centering on the Holocaust. NBC and Warner Brothers are producing a mini-series planned for November called "Uprising," about the 1943 Warsaw Ghetto uprising by Jews against the Germans.
In the experience that led to "Haven," Ms. Gruber learned that because they were considered guests of the government, the refugees would have to return to their homelands after the war. She lobbied President Harry S. Truman, who in December 1945 announced they could stay.
"From these nearly 1,000 people, I must have 5,000 grandchildren and great-grandchildren now," Ms. Gruber said. "But how many more grandchildren could I have had if we saved more?"
She recalled a visit to Israel with Eleanor Roosevelt in the 1950's. The former first lady was welcomed enthusiastically by a group of North African Jews who called her the Queen of America.
Ms. Gruber said, "When we got back to the car she looked sad and I said, 'What's the matter?' She said, 'I wish I had done more.' I put my hand on her and said: 'You couldn't have done more. It was government policy.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2001  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Natasha Richardson, left, portrays Ruth Gruber, right, in the CBS mini-series "Haven," which starts Sunday night. (Carol Halebian) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

667 of 999 DOCUMENTS


 The Washington Post

August 24, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

WORLD In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 891 words

 
ASIA
U.N. Suspends Western Timor Operations
GENEVA--The U.N. refugee agency said yesterday it was suspending operations in the western Timor region of Indonesia after three of its workers were severely injured in an attack by pro-Indonesian militia gangs. The militias oppose East Timor's year-old independence from Indonesia and have sought to control East Timorese who fled to the Indonesian-controlled part of Timor as refugees.
Gangs attacked the U.N. workers with sticks and machetes as the workers were distributing plastic sheeting to East Timorese refugees at a camp 80 miles from the provincial capital, Kupang, on Tuesday, said Soren Jessen-Petersen, assistant high commissioner for refugees. Two of the workers escaped, but the third was taken to a rice paddy where his head was held under water. He escaped later with the help of refugees. 
The aid workers were treated for severe injuries, the agency said.
"Indonesian army officials in the area were called for help but failed to respond immediately," said a statement by the refugee agency. Tensions have worsened in western Timor since last month, when a soldier from New Zealand was killed in a clash with gunmen believed to oppose independence, said another U.N. spokesman, Fernando del Mundo. Some believe sections of Indonesia's military have been arming and training the gangs.
(Associated Press)
EUROPE
CIA Expected to Produce Lockerbie Data
CAMP ZEIST, Netherlands--A Scottish prosecutor in the Lockerbie trial said he expects the CIA to hand over classified information from a Libyan informant who provided crucial evidence on the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103.
Defense lawyers demanded the material Tuesday, saying it was essential to the trial of two Libyans charged with the murder of 270 people in the explosion and crash of the airplane at Lockerbie, Scotland. Scottish judges also called on the CIA to declassify texts of dispatches from the Libyan informant, identified in court as Abdul Majid Giaka. Giaka is scheduled to testify Monday.
Scotland's chief prosecutor, Lord Advocate Colin Boyd, defended the CIA's withholding of the material on Tuesday on the ground that it disclosed agents' names and current operations. Disclosure would put their lives and U.S. security at risk, he said.
But prosecutors said Boyd met with CIA officials overnight and "good progress" was being made in the discussions to get the information declassified and released to defense lawyers.
(Associated Press)
THE AMERICAS
Canadian Rejects Mexican Currency Plan
TORONTO--Prime Minister Jean Chretien voiced doubt over a suggestion by Mexican President-elect Vicente Fox to expand the North American Free Trade Agreement and create a common currency among Canada, Mexico and the United States.
"We're happy to maintain our own currency in Canada, and we're not at this moment discussing a common currency with anybody," Chretien said after meeting with Fox in Ottawa.
In recent weeks, Fox has advocated a European-style union among Canada, the United States and Mexico that would include a common currency and fiscal policies and the free exchange of people and goods across borders. But Chretien said, "I don't think we can adopt the European model in the years to come."
Chretien and Fox discussed creating a superhighway through the United States that would speed trade between their countries. "The unexplored potential of trading between Canada and Mexico has not even been envisioned or measured," Fox said.
(DeNeen L. Brown)
THE MIDDLE EAST
Israeli Court Orders Shas Leader to Jail
JERUSALEM--Israel's Supreme Court ordered the longtime leader of the ultra-Orthodox Shas party, Aryeh Deri, to begin a three-year jail term for fraud and bribery on Sept. 3, a court spokesman said.
The ruling against Deri, a maker and breaker of several Israeli coalition governments, angered the party, which champions lower-class Sephardic Jews--those whose origins are in the Middle East and North Africa. Shas leader Eli Suissa accused the court of being part of an elite of Ashkenazi Jews--those with origins in Europe--which he said had discriminated against Sephardic Jews since Israel was founded in 1948.
Shas, with 17 seats in the 120-seat parliament, was until last month a linchpin in Prime Minister Ehud Barak's ruling coalition. But Shas and two other parties deserted the government on the eve of last month's Camp David peace summit with the Palestinians, leaving the prime minister with a minority in parliament and fighting for political survival.
(Reuters)
FOR THE RECORD
IG Farben, the German chemical company that made poison gas for Nazi death camps, will set up a compensation fund for Nazi-era slave laborers within weeks, an official in charge of liquidating the firm said. The firm was broken up by the Allies in 1952 and remains largely as a trust to settle claims and lawsuits from the Nazi era. . . . More than 20,000 Azerbaijanis mourned at the funeral of former president Abulfez Elchibey, seen by many as a symbol of Azerbaijan's post-Soviet independence. Elchibey died of prostate cancer in a Turkish hospital.
QUOTE OF THE DAY: "I feel a total sense of responsibility and guilt for this tragedy." -- Russian President Vladimir Putin, speaking of the sinking of the submarine Kursk. Page A16

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

669 of 999 DOCUMENTS

Daily News (New York)

June 20, 2000, Tuesday

DESPITE ALL THE RISKS, BUSINESS IS BOOMING

BYLINE: By THOMAS ZAMBITO DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words

People-smuggling operations like the one that sent 58 Chinese nationals on a deadly voyage to England have become an $8 billion-a-year industry, moving tens of thousands of refugees across the globe each year.
An estimated 100,000 leave China for the West annually, despite the hardships of the journey and the possibility of capture or catastrophe at the end of the road.
Earlier smuggling operations delivered refugees to Southeast Asia and, for a lucky few, North America. The scope of the smuggling became apparent when the rusting freighter Golden Venture ran aground off the Rockaways in June 1993. Ten people died swimming to shore. 
In recent years, Chinese nationals have turned up in the Pacific, along the Canadian and Mexican borders, in the Caribbean and, increasingly, in Europe.
"There has been a revival in Europe," said Peter Kwong, author of the 1997 book "Forbidden Workers," which documents human trafficking in the United States. "It's the new global migration."
Fueling the exodus is a surge in smuggling fees - as much as $60,000 per refugee.
As a result, drug couriers have turned to human trafficking. And smuggling operations in China have become increasingly aggressive, employing dozens of recruiters to convince their countrymen of the riches that await them overseas.
But in more and more instances, these trips end badly.
The news of Sunday's deadly cargo was felt in New York's Chinatown, the final destination for most of those leaving China.
Activist Steven Wong said this is the latest in a stream of tragedies involving Chinese refugees, and the deaths enraged him.
"I urge the U.S. government to pursue people smugglers and prosecute them with the death penalty," Wong said. "That's the only way we're going to stop it. And we urge the victims to give up the smugglers. They didn't treat you like a human being anyway. Don't give them respect."
Europe has become the destination for a widening group of refugees, including Albanians, Afghans, Kurds, Iraqis and Bangladeshis. And in the last year, refugees from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and Iraq have turned up off the coast of Australia.Graphic: SMUGGLERS' ROUTE
The typical route of the Chinese smuggled into Britain is a grueling overland trip that covers half the globe.
The trip generally starts in Fujian province in southern China (1) and goes north through China and into Russia (2).
After crossing the vast stretch of Russia, it dips into Eastern Europe (3), often through Ukraine, the Czech Republic and Germany and then to the Netherlands, Belgium and France (4).
The final leg of the voyage often involves being hidden in a truck aboard a ferry to a port in England (5).

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Graphic not available electronically

Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.

671 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 16, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Kosovars Changing Canadian Prairie

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: LETHBRIDGE, Alberta

Here in Canada's big sky country, midway between Medicine Hat and the Continental Divide, Blerina Hoxha sat in her apartment and recalled the day one year ago, back in the Balkans, when she stood in the rain at a tent camp, running her finger down a list. Next to her family's name was written "Canada."
"We didn't know anything about Canada," said Miss Hoxha, 19, an Albanian refugee. "We didn't ask to go to Canada." 
 She was speaking in her family's new home here. One year after their arrival last May, she speaks enough English to interview for a sales job at a dress shop, a step up from her job at a McDonald's restaurant.
Her brother Gezim, 14, bicycles on Saturday mornings to the library, where he cruises the Internet. In speaking with friends, he often ends sentences with a Canadian "eh." For spending money, he rises six days a week at 5 a.m. to deliver 47 copies of The Lethbridge Herald around their suburban neighborhood.
One year after more than a million Kosovo Albanians fled the Serbian province, North America is proving to be the world's most welcoming region for refugees who want to become immigrants. With the weather warming and security said to be improving in Kosovo, Western European nations and Australia are pushing, in some cases forcing, 250,000 refugees to return to their devastated homeland. Germany, with 170,000 Kosovar refugees, has said it will deport those who refuse a $1,000 incentive to return.
But in Canada and the United States, three-quarters of the Kosovars who came last year have stayed. Today, almost all are eligible for residency status. Canada, with about one-tenth the population of the United States, took in half as many refugees, 7,200, as the United States, which accepted 14,300.
Canada's welcome, although a tradition, reflects a federal policy of rejuvenating an aging population with immigrants. One in 7 citizens is foreign born. Last year, Canada took in 173,011 immigrants, 75 percent of the government goal.
"I was surprised we were so welcomed," Rexhep Hoxha, with lines in his face deeper than his 46 years, said in Albanian as his daughter Blerina translated. A former curtain inspector in a Yugoslav factory, Mr. Hoxha recalled, "People waited for us at the airport as if we were important people."
Leo Siemens, a semiretired Mennonite pastor, was at the airport that day with a "Welcome to Canada" banner. The Hoxhas' "sponsor," Mr. Siemens said he also remembered their arrival. "There was fear in their eyes," he said. "They did not know what was going to happen. They did not speak any English."
In this railroad city of 70,000 people, the six Kosovar families here are part of a changing, more cosmopolitan face of Canadian prairie cities. Although 1,000 Lethbridge residents were born in the United States, historically one of Alberta's largest sources of immigrants, 500 other residents were born in China. At the small mosque here, the faithful include people born in Pakistan and Iran.
"We have refugees from Sudan, Bosnia, China, Latvia, Afghanistan -- quite a diverse population," said Jodie Gallais, settlement counselor for Immigration Services, a government-financed agency. "They get money for food, money for rent, money for bus passes. For the Kosovars, the churches had apartments ready for them. They were giving them dishes, driving them places."
In this small city, where the August Whoop-Up Days rodeo is the social highlight of the summer, the Kosovar immigrants seem to be finding a niche.
Blerina Hoxha is becoming accustomed to a flat, enormous landscape in which speeding pickups send up dust trails visible for miles around. Before fleeing Kosovo, she said, the farthest she had traveled was the 30-mile trip from her village to Pristina, the Kosovo capital. "The police stopped the bus five or 10 times," she said.
Relatives who visited their village after the war said the Serbs had burned 400 of the 500 houses, including the Hoxhas' house.
"If I go back, I have to start from the beginning, I have to start building a house," said Mr. Hoxha, who is learning English. "Here it is a good country. No crime. There is freedom."
His wife, Makfire, said her ambition was to have their older son, Luzlim, 22, move here after graduating next year from engineering school in Tirana, Albania. With Gezim translating, she said: "Kosovo -- only to visit. Not to live."
Gezim, a computer buff, inspected a visitor's laptop and scrolled through an article about plans by Australia, Britain, France, Germany, Norway and Switzerland to start deporting Kosovo refugees in the summer. Gezim, who has plans to go to college in Calgary, said, "We were lucky."
  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kosovo refugees, Blerina Hoxha; her brother Gezim; her mother, Makfire; and father, Rexhep, at their apartment in Lethbridge, Alberta. (Ian Jackson for The New York Times)
 
Map of Canada highlighting Lethbridge: Immigrants are changing the face of prairie cities like Lethbridge.

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company

672 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

February 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Character Test

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:
"The Next President's Duty to Intervene" (Op-Ed, Feb. 13), by Michael Ignatieff, clearly conveys the tug-of-war between national interests and values. Americans want a president with a strong moral character and a conviction to lead by our values, not merely our national interests. But global stability has become both a national interest and an American value, so a president must respond to the threat of genocide or "ethnic cleansing" not only in Europe but also in Africa, Asia and the Americas. 
 Human rights issues never win presidential campaigns, but character will surely be important in this one. Let us keep prodding candidates to clarify their plan of action or inaction in situations of genocide. Let them reveal their character and convictions.
 
ANTHONY J. KOZLOWSKI
Minneapolis, Feb. 14, 2000
 
The writer is president of the American Refugee Committee.  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company

674 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Ottawa is a sucker for sad stories, and Canadians are paying the tab

BYLINE: DIANE FRANCIS

SECTION: Editorial / Op-ed; A9

LENGTH: 760 words

Not one of the Tibetans who have recently poured into Canada from the United States, some with a lethal form of tuberculosis, should be allowed to stay. This is because not a single one of them qualifies as a bona fide refugee under the UN's Convention on Refugees. Under that treaty, they are from a ''safe third country,'' namely the United States - also a signatory to the convention - which is why they can, and must, be immediately returned.
The reasoning behind this is that each signing nation is obliged to have in place a means of determining whether refugees are real or not and of supporting them. To allow them to move from one safe country to another invites fraudulent double claims, or ''refugees'' claiming status in more than one country in order to get double welfare, housing, health care or other benefits. To allow them to move from one safe country to another also invites irresponsibility on the part of the first host nation, which can get out from under its obligations by passing them on to another, less careful country. 
The point is, as things currently stand and as the Tibetans have proved dramatically, all refugee roads now lead to Canada because our ignorant government accepts any ''refugee'' from other UN signatory nations, including the world's richest. The Tibetans are nothing more than opportunists who are ''shopping countries'' and arrived here only to take advantage of Canada's more generous social and health-care benefits.
Ottawa should be sued for allowing them in, along with the tens of thousands of Latin Americans and others it has allowed in here over the past few years from the United States as bogus refugees. Anyone who makes up a sad story from anywhere is let in. We have been deluged with undeserving people from perfectly safe democracies. We have also been flooded with questionable people from eastern Europe who have come via ''safe third countries'' such as Germany, Britain, Israel or France. Then there's the crush that have come here from Hong Kong or Singapore or other free cities in Asia. We have even let a gangster's wife from the United States come here as a refugee because she was frightened of him and could not get witness protection south of the border.
Ottawa's not gentler and kinder. Ottawa's a sucker, and we're paying the tab.
Little wonder that Canada has been the laughing stock of the developed world for years for allowing anyone to claim they are a refugee, contrary to the convention and contrary to the practices of all the other signing countries.
By the way, as a long-standing contributor to international charities and a director of CARE Canada, I believe that we all have an obligation to look after the world's less fortunate. Charity is a good trait. But Canadians already contribute enough directly through personal donations as well as indirectly through government contributions to the United Nations and CIDA and through the cost of tax writeoffs given to those who directly contribute. That amounts to billions of dollars annually and is sufficient, in my opinion.
Beyond that, Canadians have absolutely no further responsibility. Newcomers, or guests, to our society should either be qualified immigrants or bona fide refugees.
Despite much evidence by myself and a handful of others as to the fact that many of our immigrants and refugees should never have been allowed in, Ottawa has made matters worse by mishandling the summer smugglers from China. As I have discovered through leaked documents, Ottawa was warned weeks ago that organized criminals in China were going to dump boatloads of opportunists on our shores, posing as refugees. They were warned that virtually all of them are wanted crooks or indentured to crooks, or are smugglers. That's why these arrivals should have been jailed, then immediately deported for defrauding our refugee system. Instead, Ottawa used our tax dollars to give them room service, legal-aid lawyers and open-ended social benefits.
That's why it was little wonder that the Tibetans, some with and some without virulent tuberculosis, headed north to the Land of Suckers and Sick Pay Forever.
Canadians are fed up with this and people in Ottawa scurry for cover because the immigration industry of lawyers and lobbyists and refugees pounces on any and all critics as racists. Good immigration is good for Canada. Bad immigration is not, and Ottawa has demonstrably failed to protect our borders from the latter.
- Diane Francis, based in Toronto, is a columnist for the National Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 CanWest Interactive, a division of
CanWest Global Communications Corp.
All Rights Reserved

679 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 8, 1999, Thursday, Saturday, Final Edition

Keeping Kosovo Refugees Connected; Exiles Get Homeland News as USIA Program Provides Internet, E-Mail

Nathan Abse, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: FORT DIX, N.J.

 
Kujtim Latifi, a refugee from the war in Kosovo, spent a month in Macedonia in an overcrowded tent swimming in mud, with no way to contact anyone and no access to news of home. He came to America carrying little but anxiety about the fate of his relatives and his town.
But during the past month, on an iMac personal computer inside a vanilla-colored trailer here, the 17-year-old has been receiving e-mail from family--comforting messages sent by his uncle, Selami Latifi, 43, also in exile, thousands of miles away.
"We have had very good hospitality in Finland . . . and it's filled with lakes and greenery--nice fields for walking," Kujtim said, smiling as he translated his uncle's e-mail. 
Officially known as the Kosovar Refugee Internet and Technology Assistance Initiative, this public-private partnership led by the State Department's U.S. Information Agency (USIA) is providing free Internet and e-mail access to refugees of the Kosovo conflict.
This mundane trailer, furnished only with folding tables, chairs and 12 donated purple and orange computers, has quietly ushered in a new age. Wars have always created refugees, who almost by definition have remained poorly connected to their homeland. Now, refugees are staying in touch with news of home as never before.
And because repatriating the refugees will take several months, similar facilities remain open or are scheduled to open soon to serve thousands of Kosovo Albanians at camps and temporary resettlement areas in France, Germany, Poland, Albania and Macedonia. The operation at Fort Dix is expected to wind down soon, with the computer equipment being moved to these cyber centers, and to seven new ones slated to open in Kosovo beginning in August.
The cyber-center project was dreamed up by Jonathan Spalter, the 36-year-old head of the USIA's Information Bureau, the 400-strong team that disseminates the U.S. government's policy on issues, including the war in Kosovo. But, as Spalter points out, the trailer brings news from any site on the Web, everything from Albanian television and Serbian outlets to USIA's own Voice of America and Radio Free Europe.
By law, USIA is responsible for providing news to "captive populations," so when the war began in March, Spalter began searching for ways to see to the refugees' "informational needs."
"I learned from one of our diplomats in Macedonia that whenever he would walk into a camp with his cell phone, refugees would just run over to him and ask him to use it," Spalter said. "Driving to work one day, I realized, My God! What if we were to put in 'Internet centers' at the camps."
Spalter, along with Nancy Ozeas, Information Bureau chief of staff, and Tom Becherer, an advisor, worked up the plan, and Spalter flew to Geneva to talk with the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees to see if Internet communication for the refugees might complement relief efforts.
"He liked the idea," Spalter said, "and then we were up and running."
USIA expects to spend less than $ 100,000 on the project. So far, equipment and services valued at more than $ 1.5 million have been donated. At Fort Dix, Apple Computer Inc. provided the dozen iMacs and one top-of-the-line G3 server. Bell Atlantic Corp. provides free Internet service.
"What this does is show that we can get public-private partnerships to work--to do things together, and not always get the taxpayer to bear all the costs," Spalter said.
Most refugees have never surfed the Web, or in some cases even seen a computer. But, coached by David Zweigel, the USIA computer specialist who has managed the facility since it opened in May, and by a few assistants and a handful of computer-savvy refugees, many are spending hours hunched over the machines watching Albanian newscasts, checking Web sites on Serbian war crimes and searching the International Red Cross's Kosovo Crisis Web site to find loved ones.
The barracks where the refugees live are no longer filled to their capacity of about 4,000 people; fewer than 400 refugees remain, with most of the others who came to the United States spread out across the country, their stays sponsored by charities or relatives.
At the trailer, the e-mail continues across the ocean: "Don't let yourself . . . waste time doing nothing but waiting--Work hard to learn languages and how to use the computer and high technology," Selami urged Kujtim.
Besart Morina, right, a volunteer computer teacher, helps fellow Kosovo refugees use computers to watch an Albanian television broadcast.

LOAD-DATE: July 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, NATHAN ABSE FOR The Washington Post

Copyright 1999 The Washington Post

680 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 1, 1999, Thursday, Saturday, Final Edition

Yankee Doodle Mom

Richard Cohen

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 695 words

 
July Fourth is the nation's birthday. It is also my mother's. They are both very old, as these things go -- America for a nation, especially a democracy, my mother for a person, especially one born in such inauspicious circumstances. Within two years of her birth, in 1912 and in Poland, Europe was at war and my mother and her family were refugees. They slept four in a bed, eight in a room and ate, on a good day, a potato or two that my grandmother had filched (under pain of death) from the farm where she was forced to work. In my family, we don't talk about the good old days.
My mother is a rebuke to science. She did not have a balanced diet when she was a kid. She had almost no diet at all. When my cousin, the filmmaker, and her sister, the photographer, decided to record our family's history, they sat my mother and father down on two chairs, asked some questions and trained a camera on them. "What is your most vivid childhood memory, Aunt Pat?" 
"I remember being hungry."
It was summer. The doors and windows were open and I was sitting on the deck out back, listening. "Hungry," she said. The word had a physical, concussive quality. We don't know hunger here anymore. It's like smallpox or diphtheria -- gone, or virtually so. We throw out food, and even the homeless can eat -- maybe not well, but enough. I forget sometimes what it was like for my mother because she is not inclined to talk much about it. Besides, she prefers to look to the future.
The past, though, intrudes occasionally. The TV pictures from Kosovo upset her -- the rivers of refugees fleeing into Macedonia and Albania. "I know what that is like," she said. It was then she told about how the army in the First World War kicked them out of their home and they became refugees. They didn't go far, just to some place where they could find some shelter. Still, they lost their home. It has never happened to me. Has it ever happened to you?
By the end of 1920, my mother was in America. She went to school here, learned her remarkable penmanship here, learned to speak English without any accent and was trained, as was the custom then, in the skills of typing and bookkeeping. She worked in Tin Pan Alley and in the garment industry. She worked for the school my sister and I attended, and then for a Catholic hospital where, I think, she did everything but open-heart surgery. She is, I tell you, the most amazingly competent person I have ever met.
Here is the truth, the tragic truth: My mother was born too soon. If she were my age, if she were even younger, she would have gone to college, to graduate school, interned here and interned there, semestered in Paris and then in Florence and by now be the CEO of some smashing company. She would be into the Internet and cyberspace and, as she still does, she would be walking four miles a day at a pace that would make anyone else her age just plain quit. My mother -- not any book or op-ed piece -- made a feminist out of me.
Here is another truth: My mother has kept my father alive. He is 90 and hurting from arthritis. He cannot button his shirt. He cannot tie his shoes. He cannot, of course, prepare his own food because, among other things, he never did it even when he could. My mother does all this -- and gets him out of the house to boot. They go to the movies. They go to the theater. They go to lectures, and until recently they went to college in the summer. They are two remarkable people. They are not only my good fortune, they are my fortune.
My mother does not understand her mirror. It shows an old woman. But she does not feel old or act old. Her heart valves get replaced every 20 years or so, and occasionally an injury forces her to suspend her walking regime. But she (and my father) volunteer at Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Fla., and she would, if she could, go right back to work, as if she were 30 or 40 years younger. She's great at caring and great at laughing and -- always and still -- great when you skin your knee and need a real pal. My mother and my country -- both born on the 4th, both somehow still young.
Happy Birthday to them both.

LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 The Washington Post

681 of 999 DOCUMENTS


  The Philadelphia Inquirer

JUNE 16, 1999 Wednesday SF EDITION

WEIGHING WHEN TO GO HOME SOME REFUGEES ARE EAGER TO RETURN TO KOSOVO. IF THEY DO BEFORE IT'S SAFE, THEY'RE ON THEIR OWN, AN OFFICIAL SAID AT DIX.

BYLINE: Leonard N. Fleming, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: FORT DIX

Kosovar refugees being resettled in the United States from this Army post may be able to return home in less than six months or when it is safe if they so choose, Assistant Secretary of State Julia Taft said here yesterday.
But Taft, who is in charge of population, refugees and migration affairs for the State Department, said that those who want to get back to Kosovo before NATO officials deem it safe will have to pay their own way and return at their own risk.
The U.S. government has promised to pay all expenses on their return trip when it is safe to do so.
Taft - who was touring Fort Dix with Doris Meissner, the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service - and other government officials said they were confident that the ethnic Albanians would not go back to a country in which NATO forces could not yet fully protect them. 
Safety is defined by the military officials as total Serb troop withdrawl from Kosovo, when major roadways are cleared of land mines and help arrives for the estimated 500,000 displaced Kosovars who have been hiding in the hills outside their burned-out villages.
"They're not required to stay here if they choose. They want to go home," Taft said just before touring the village quarters set up for more than 2,500 refugees here.
She was speaking only of the 1,500 who have already departed for homes across the United States. Refugees still at Fort Dix cannot go directly home; they must be resettled first through a sponsoring family or agency.
Speaking of those who have been resettled, Taft said, "If they choose to, they can go up to any airline and go to where they want to go."
There have been some "spontaneous returns" from the refugee camps in Macedonia and Albania, but government officials here are discouraging it.
And Taft said she does not expect such a reaction, especially hearing from the refugees that "they are optimistic, they're cautious, but they want to make sure it's safe to return."
The peace agreement signed last week between NATO and Yugoslav military commanders brought elation as well as skepticism to refugees housed here who don't trust President Slobodan Milosevic.
Lavinia Limon, director of refugee resettlement for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and commander of the Fort Dix operation, said some refugees asked to go home from Fort Dix.
They were told to take advantage of being relocated in America, find jobs and schools for their children, and return when they can save enough money to go back and rebuild when they are ready.
That is what Kajtaz Krasniqi, 55, wants to do. He fled Kosovo with seven family members in hopes of finding peace here. He said he would resettle, find a job, and stay a month or two before looking to go back.
He said he wouldn't go back until America and NATO said it was time.
"I trust the Americans," he said.
Fazile Murtezi, 56, said she agreed with government officials who want her family to resettle first and return only when it is safe. All she has left to go back to now is an empty home with few belongings.
"I hope it's going to be soon," she said about returning.
Merita Fazliu, 27, said she was not ready to go back.
"I'd like to continue my studies here," she said, adding that it should be safe soon for others who want to return. "After 10 days or a month, I think, everything will be all right."
The government is getting closer to fulfilling its promise of giving 20,000 ethnic Albanian refugees from the war-torn Balkans either temporary or permanent residency in America. At least 7,000 are in the United States, and more than 6,000 have been approved for resettlement from Europe.
The operation at Fort Dix will end in July after the last batch of refugees are resettled. Government officials are not expecting any more refugee arrivals at the post; those who come to America will settle straight from Macedonia.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Moving into Kosovo

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
At Fort Dix, Ragip Bucalis stands with his sons (from left) Boletin, 7, Blerind, 4, and Ismet, 9. Bucalis would like to return to his home if it isn't destroyed. (DANIEL HULSHIZER, Associated Press)

Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC 
All Rights Reserved

682 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

June 09, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

In Costa Rica, Finding Happiness Is a Tradeoff

Nora Boustany, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; DIPLOMATIC DISPATCHES

LENGTH: 878 words

 
If all refugee sagas unfolded in sunny Costa Rica, they could have happy endings.
When turmoil and civil strife wracked Central America in the 1980s, Costa Rica -- a country of more than 3.5 million people -- absorbed 400,000 refugees, mainly from Nicaragua. Last November, that small nation granted these refugees legal residence status, giving them access to medical benefits, schools, employment and full citizenship in five years. It was the equivalent of the United States issuing 30 million green cards, according to Jaime Daremblum, Costa Rica's ambassador here. 
But when 200,000 more refugees arrived after Hurricane Mitch last fall, the influx taxed Costa Rica's health care system, schools and general services. "We did not suffer any material destruction, but we got the social impact. . . . We don't have borders in the same sense you visualize borders," said the ambassador.
But another happy ending may be in the cards. Last month Congress allocated $ 130 million to help settle the refugee problem in Central America in the wake of the Hurricane Mitch disaster. The only country specified by name in that bill was Costa Rica, which has applied for $ 100 million of those funds.
Another issue Daremblum is pushing -- along with other Caribbean basin diplomats -- is to acquire some of the free-trade advantages that Washington accords Mexico for tariffs levied on exports to the United States. In Costa Rica, tariff breaks would boost the textile industry, for example, creating a demand for American machinery and spare parts and generating employment that would mean less illegal immigration to the United States, he continued.
"If we cannot provide employment for all the refugees from Hurricane Mitch, there are not going to be just 20,000 Kosovars in the United States but hundreds of thousands of Latin Americans," he said. Costa Rica and other Caribbean basin countries "need improved trade opportunities in the United States to solve that problem."
You've Got a Friend in Slovakia
Martin Butora, Slovakia's ambassador here, is in a race against time.
Butora is a sociologist and author who has written about political culture and evolution. His views emerged from his work in one of the islands of what he calls "positive deviancy," a movement that resisted communism in Czechoslovakia, which split into the Czech Republic and Slovakia soon after the fall of Communist rule.
Now Butora is actively trying to get post-Communist Slovakia to catch up with its neighbors. In 13 weeks on the job, he has spent at least six weeks on state visits, World Bank and International Monetary Fund spring sessions, the NATO summit and knocking on doors -- all to put Slovakia back on the global agenda now that Vladimir Meciar -- who clung to communist suspicions about the West, free trade and international organizations -- is no longer in power. "We missed out on the momentum," he said.
A remedial package for economic restructuring, an austerity program and lower corporate tax systems to encourage investments are before parliament, and the new government is actively approaching churches, nongovernmental organizations and trade unions to put together a "social stability pact" to alleviate the impact of those reforms on ordinary Slovaks, he said.
"The man on the street will not benefit in the coming months but in the visible future. . . . You simply have to do surgery," Butora said.
He said the World Bank is open to helping with structural strategic assistance in this critical period. Slovakia, however, is still "heavily undercapitalized," he said, receiving 12 times less international investment than Hungary since 1989. "We have done our homework, now we have to work like workaholics," he said.
The Slovak mind-set is slowly changing, he explained, from the time of socialist modernization when industrial monoculture dictated life from birth to one's final days. "It gave everything and took everything. There was no capitalist spirit. Now people are asking for foreign investment," he added. Now there are cell phones and ATM machines in Slovakia, and the three factors of change, he said, are coming together: a pluralistic political regime, market reforms and the forging of a new cultural and ethnic identity.
The most pivotal experience in Butora's career was a stint from 1977 to 1988 as a therapist in a clinic for alcoholics, he said. "It was fascinating, and one of the strongest experiences of my life," he said of the interaction with people from all walks of life -- artists, blue-collar workers and establishment types. He drew two lessons from that experience.
First, he said, "I saw so many people who came through the return of the prodigal son. You did something stupid, but now you can change. I perceived these societies as those who returned from the experience of communism, which was a mistake. It had some illusions, some dreams which proved to be wrong. It was the human potential to recover and mobilize one's internal resources and to realize what a gift it was to be free."
Second, those who came through his clinic went on to organize self-help groups, which helped them develop organizational and other skills that eventually helped topple communism.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 The Washington Post

692 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Some refugees bribing way out: 'It's a shame others had to stay in the camp, but I had to help my family'

SECTION: News; A19

LENGTH: 602 words

DATELINE: SKOPJE, Macedonia

After two weeks of waiting for a chance to register his family for evacuation to Germany, a Kosovo refugee began to notice something odd.
Newcomers arriving at the Stenkovec I refugee camp were heading off for other parts of Europe within a couple of days.
Looking for a way out for his family, he said, he met "Muja," who arranged everything. Three days and $3,800 U.S. later, his four children were in Frankfurt. 
"It is a shame that the others had to stay in the camp, but I had to help my family," said the 52-year-old economist, who has stayed behind and spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal.
Officials of the three international organizations handling the movement of Kosovo Albanians to temporary asylum in other countries have been hearing rumours for weeks that some people were paying big bribes to get on flights out.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees is investigating. The two other groups - the International Organization for Migration and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe - are also looking into reports of bribery.
Ron Redmond, spokesman for the UNHCR, said: "Under normal circumstances of a refugee camp of this size and this complexity, you're going to find these types of activities."
He gave few details, pending the outcome of the investigation.
Albanian sources familiar with the racket said most of the bribery involves flights to Germany, Italy and other European destinations.
It is unclear how airline seats open up for those with money, but the system is believed to involve people with access to the lists of refugees allowed on each flight.
Refugees trying to get on flights to the United States and Canada go through an additional screening process, conducted directly by American and Canadian immigration officials, who assign priority to those in need and with relatives already in the countries.
In order to crack down on abuses, security at the camps has been tightened. Newly arrived refugees from Kosovo now must first be processed at the Cegrane camp, 89 kilometres southwest of Skopje. Afterward, they are assigned to other tent cities.
Most refugees can't afford to pay their way out and even those whose money wasn't stolen by the Serbs cannot leave the camps to find someone to get them on a flight.
But that doesn't stop people from slipping past the police at a camp gate and canvassing for refugees who are looking to buy their way onto a flight.
To avoid detection, "facilitators" prefer to close deals outside the camps. A refugee willing and able to pay is told to have a friend or relative who lives in Macedonia or who has a permit to leave the camp appear at a tea room in the city.
There, a discreet word to the waiter brings a representative of the syndicate to the table. If the representative is convinced he is not talking to an undercover police agent, he summons a second man to discuss prices and the desired destination.
Within days, the refugee and his family are notified where to meet an "escort," who slips them past police and hands them documents allowing them to board the plane. Payment, which ranges from $500 to $1,800 U.S. a head, is handed over - often by a friend or relative who stays behind - only after the plane has taken off.
In some cases, ethnic Albanians who have been granted permission to live legally in Macedonia are using the scheme to get to wealthy western European countries.
"Macedonian card holders have a right to visit the camp," said Aurvasi Patel, UNHCR manager at Stenkovec I. "But many are 'visiting' to leave."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 CanWest Interactive, a division of
CanWest Global Communications Corp.
All Rights Reserved

694 of 999 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

May 5, 1999, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

For 444 refugees, next stop USA First group leaves horrors of war today

BYLINE: Vivienne Walt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: STANKOVIC 1 REFUGEE CAMP, Macedonia

STANKOVIC 1 REFUGEE CAMP, Macedonia -- As the sun set over the
nearby Kosovo mountains Tuesday, the Pllana family sat in the
doorway of Tent G-54, drinking tea for the last time with camp
neighbors, swapping tales of massacres they witnessed in Kosovo
and wondering what lay ahead.
For once, there was an answer, albeit uncertain: a life in the
United States. The Pllanas will arrive today on the first plane
carrying Kosovo refugees who were accepted by U.S. immigration
officials.
"Our house, our town, everything was destroyed. We left with
nothing," says Sevdije Pllana, 40, who fled with her family three
weeks ago from Kosovo's war-torn Racak district, traveling some
of the way by horse-drawn cart. "I just want my children to finish
school now."
 
About 444 refugees -- the first of 20,000 bound for the United
States -- were scheduled to leave Macedonia today.
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials began arriving
from Washington last week to speed up the paperwork, even suspending
mandatory medical tests until the refugees arrive in the United
States.
The refugees will fly to Fort Dix, N.J. They will be eligible
for permanent residence within one year, and full U.S. citizenship
five years later.
Officials seemed astonished at the smooth operation. "Many of
our refugee programs take years to process people," says Kathleen
Thompson, director of the INS refugee program.
Hundreds of applicants snaked through a tent set up in a corner
of this sprawling camp, where many of its 30,000 refugees have
endured weeks with no sanitation or showers in overcrowded tents
with near-strangers.
Since Monday, INS officials have processed more than 500 refugees
and expect to accept hundreds more within the next few days. U.N.
refugee officials say more than 11,000 refugees have crossed into
Macedonia since Monday.
The United States is not the top choice for many refugees, most
of whom have contacts elsewhere in Europe, where hundreds of thousands
of Albanians have lived and worked for decades. Like many others,
the Pllanas know no one in the United States. But by sundown Tuesday,
refugees had crowded around the wooden information board in the
camp's main clearing to see if their names were on the U.S. list.
Dardane Pllana, 15, erupted with laughter as an INS official snapped
a Polaroid photo for her immigration document. "I don't know
about America," she says, stumbling over her English. "I really
want to see the White House."
The Pllanas' new papers are their only documents. All others were
seized by Serb police, who, they said, rampaged through their
village, Shtimle, where Mehmet Pllana, 60, was a high-school math
teacher. The family fled to a nearby village before leaving Kosovo.
On the last night in her refugee tent, Dardane pored over one
of the few possessions she had grabbed as the family fled: a well-thumbed
photo album. Inside was a world of parks and streets and a sweeping
hilltop vista of Shtimle's houses, now mostly destroyed by bullets
and fires. "These are my friends," she says, pointing to a photograph
of a group of giggling teen-age girlfriends, hugging in the sun.
"I don't know where they are. I don't know if I will see them
again."
DEVELOPMENT
Events in the Kosovo conflict Tuesday:
-- The United States is ready to approve the release of
two Serb POWs in response to the weekend return of three U.S.
soldiers, administration officials say.
-- A divided U.S. Senate, uncertain how it wants to proceed
on the Kosovo crisis, set aside a measure that would have allowed
President Clinton to use "all necessary force" in the conflict.
-- Russian envoy Viktor Chernomyrdin holds a second round
of talks with Clinton administration officials, but no breakthrough
is seen.
-- President Clinton plans to meet NATO Secretary General
Javier Solana and U.S. troops in Europe.
-- Ethnic Albanian refugees are scheduled to arrive in
the United States. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton travels to
New Jersey today to welcome them.

LOAD-DATE: May 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Ruben Sprich, Reuters; Looking for good news: Ethnic Albanian refugees look at an information board at the Stankovic refugee camp in Macedonia. On the board are lists containing the names of refugees to be airlifted out.

Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.

696 of 999 DOCUMENTS


  The Philadelphia Inquirer

MAY 4, 1999 Tuesday SF EDITION

400 REFUGEES SET TO GO TO FORT DIX / U.S. OFFICIALS IN MACEDONIA ARE INTERVIEWING THEM / TO DECIDE WHO WILL LEAVE FOR NEW JERSEY TOMORROW.

BYLINE: Barbara Demick, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1158 words

DATELINE: STENKOVEC REFUGEE CAMP, Macedonia

They pronounce the name Amreka with awe, and mostly what they know is that it is a rich, powerful country they've seen only in the movies.
They also know that it is far, far away from the homes they reluctantly fled in Kosovo.
The first 400 Kosovo refugees to the United States are to be flown out tomorrow morning on a Boeing 747 to Fort Dix in New Jersey, and yesterday the first passengers began to be selected by U.S. officials in Macedonia's largest refugee camp.
As other refugees gazed from behind a wire fence, the chosen ones waited nervously in line, bewildered about how they were selected and unsure about where they were going. 
"It is so far away from Kosovo," admitted Drita Dragusha, 36, an economist from Pristina who held a squirming 2-year-old as she waited in the sun with trepidation. Dragusha, whose husband is working in Switzerland, said she had applied to go there and to Germany, but could not get space on a plane.
"I know America from what I see in the movies, and I figured why not? It has to be better than here."
More diplomatically, her father, Isak Dragusha, 60, interjected: "America is helping us in Kosovo, so it has to be a great country."
If the refugees appeared less than overjoyed about the prospect of the United States, there are several reasons. Overwhelmingly, the refugees hope to return to Kosovo, so asylum in Europe seems a less frightening prospect - especially in countries where many ethnic Albanians serve as guest workers in construction jobs.
When they were initially asked to pick their country of preference for asylum on registration forms, the American option was unappealingly listed as Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (USA) - the naval base that was later ruled out in favor of Fort Dix as a refugee camp.
"I'd love to go to the United States, but not to Cuba. I've had enough of communist countries. I'd only go to a democratic country where people won't treat us as animals," said Kustrime Musmurati,, 17, a Pristina high school student speaking in nearly fluent English.
Working from a computer list of the 300 neediest families at Stenkovec, the Immigration and Naturalization Service conducted interviews in four white tents. Kathleen Thompson, an INS official who is directing the project, said many of the 300 selected families whose names were posted on bulletin boards at the camp had not appeared for the interviews. The list was compiled by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the International Organization for Migration, giving priority to "vulnerable" cases - those with an illness in the family, or women whose husbands had disappeared - but many of those listed had already left the camp.
"It's true we had many no-shows. But this is only our first day here, and we still have a lot to figure out," said Thompson. "I think after we give our spiel about our program, we'll have a lot of interest."
Under the evacuation program, the refugees will be flown to McGuire Air Force Base, in Burlington County, then housed in barracks at Fort Dix, for what Thompson said should be no more than two to four weeks. They will then be placed with families that have volunteered to take in refugees.
The refugees will also be given the right to work and, after a year, the right to apply for green cards if they want to stay permanently under an asylum program for people with a "well-founded fear of persecution."
The United States has offered to take in 20,000 refugees. Of that group, a large portion will be those who have close relatives already in the United States who are willing to sponsor them. However, most of those refugees are not living in the camps, and their interviews will begin next week at a small farmhouse near Skopje where the INS is setting up an office.
With refugees streaming out of Kosovo to Macedonia, and the camps bulging, the United States decided to do its first evacuations as quickly as possible from among the camp population.
"We are moving fast to relieve the tension at the camp," said Gary Remmel, an official of the International Organization for Migration, an agency working with the INS.
While the usual procedure would call for refugees to get health screening before they are evacuated, the processing has been expedited for the first group. Yesterday, the refugees did no more than fill out forms, sit through 20-minutes interviews and pose for Polaroid pictures so that they can be identified when they get on the plane.
Officials expect that four planes - carrying a total of about 1,600 people - will leave between tomorrow and next Wednesday.
In the teeming Stenkovec camp, word that the Americans were interviewing was just starting to spread from tent to tent in the afternoon. Even if those selected for the first interviews had misgivings, it appears there will be no problem filling the planes.
"How do I get on the list?" implored Halime Berisha, 40, a harried mother of four who stood mournfully outside the wire fence where the interviews were conducted. "My husband is missing. My children haven't taken a bath for six weeks. I must get on one of those planes."
Stenkovec, with a population of 30,000, and an adjacent camp holding 19,000 more, are miserably overcrowded. Many families are living with 12 or more people in tents designed for five and the latrines cannot be pumped fast enough to prevent them from overflowing.
After the bitterly cold nights of early April, the weather has become hot, turning the plastic-coated tents into virtual steam baths during sunny afternoons. A hairdreser who is working outside her tent is doing a brisk business chopping off women's long hair, as the refugees are finding it impossible to keep their hair clean in a camp without running water.
Macedonia now has at least 170,000 refugees, according to UNHCR, and about 9,000 arrived yesterday - the largest number since early April. Paula Ghedini, a UNHCR spokeswoman, said that many were coming from Podejevo, a city in Kosovo's north that had been a stronghold of the separatist Kosovo Liberation Army.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair visited the camp yesterday and said his country would increase its refugee aid contributions to $64 million, and take in more ethnic Albanians fleeing the southern Yugoslav province. He did not name a specific number of refugees.
In order to relieve the desperate overcrowding in Macedonia, NATO said yesterday its troops were looking to build several new camps in Albania, that could accommodate about 60,000 of the Kosovo refugees here, as well as new refugees flooding into Albania.
"You look at these crowds and you wonder how many 747s it would take to get everybody out of here," mused William Walker, an American diplomat heading the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's monitoring mission, as he toured Stenkovec yesterday. "But obviously, that is not the answer. You've got to get them back to Kosovo."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC 
All Rights Reserved

698 of 999 DOCUMENTS


  The Philadelphia Inquirer

APRIL 18, 1999 Sunday D EDITION

U.S. MAY FLY OUT REFUGEES TO BASE / NEW EXODUS FROM KOSOVO OVERWHELMS AID WORKERS

BYLINE: John Donnelly, INQUIRER WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1053 words

A huge new exodus of ethnic Albanians sloshed through torrential rains and lightning storms on the roads out of Kosovo yesterday, in a fresh humanitarian crisis that reopened the possibility that thousands would be flown to a distant U.S. military base.
A senior Clinton administration official said the option of sending Kosovar Albanian refugees to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, had reemerged as a strong possibility because of the huge number of people fleeing the Serbian province.
An earlier U.S. offer to temporarily take in 20,000 refugees at Guantanamo had receded because the base was so far from Kosovo and because aid groups believed they could build enough camps in Albania. That thinking changed yesterday as the second major wave of people fleeing Kosovo began to overwhelm workers in Albania, Macedonia, and the Yugoslav republic of Montenegro. 
"Over the past couple of days, the situation has gotten much worse," said the administration official, who is involved in the resettlement of refugees and who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "If the situation continues to worsen, the likelihood of farther-away refuge options becomes greater. Thus, it is fair to say the potential for a U.S. safe haven is much greater today than yesterday."
In Geneva, Switzerland, yesterday, the U.N. refugee agency began plans to move people out of the camps along the Kosovo border. It authorized airlifting refugees to Belgium and France, while putting on hold any evacuations to North America or Australia.
"For the time being, we have set the offers from overseas destinations on the back burner with the understanding that we might have to activate them at any time," said Judith Kumin, a spokeswoman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.
The Clinton administration official said that determination could be made in the next two days.
"The complexion on this could change fast," the official said.
Guantanamo "could take in 500 refugees tomorrow," the official said. Refugee experts have criticized holding Kosovar Albanians there for several reasons, including that the refugees would be cut off from their homeland.
But with the influx of refugees creating new pressures on fragile governments, notably Macedonia and Montenegro, the United States, Canada and Western European countries may decide that stabilizing the region is most important.
NATO officials said yesterday that intensified fighting between Serbian forces and the ethnic Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army, coupled with a renewed ethnic-cleansing campaign in the province, helped create the new refugee problem.
About 20,000 refugees arrived Friday and an additional 12,000 early yesterday at camps in Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro, aid workers said. Some had been walking more than five days.
Aid workers scrambled to meet the new demands.
"We've stopped interviewing people because we are overwhelmed," said U.N. refugee agency spokesman Jacques Franquin in Macedonia, where more than 12,000 people entered in the last two days.
More, many more, were coming. Up to 100,000 were reported to be on their way to Macedonia, 50,000 to Albania, and 20,000 to Montenegro.
"It's like a mud bath here," said Ariel Wosner, a CARE worker at the Stenkovec II camp in Macedonia, which houses about 13,500 refugees two miles from the Kosovo border. "Wind destroyed many of the latrine doors. The rain caused flooding in a lot of the tents. If it carries on like this for a few days, it will be a complete nightmare."
The cold, wet weather worried aid workers, who said that the camps could become breeding grounds for sickness, particularly respiratory illnesses.
The weather also was no friend to NATO, which had to curtail many bombing missions after the storms blew in late Friday and yesterday. Still, NATO officials said seven tanks and several troop carriers were destroyed in Kosovo. NATO also said bombs killed Yugoslav troops as well.
Also, missiles struck a major oil refinery in Novi Sad, Yugoslavia's second-largest city. Yugoslav media last night reported NATO planes were "swarming" over Belgrade, hitting targets there as well.
"These are the kinds of losses that clearly are going to knock the stuffing out of the Yugoslav forces in Kosovo," NATO spokesman Jamie Shea said in Brussels, Belgium.
Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic "is losing, and he knows he's losing," said Gen. Wesley Clark, the NATO commander, visiting troops in Macedonia. "And if he doesn't change his policies, we're going to destroy . . . those things that President Milosevic values."
Belgrade did not seem cowed, however.
Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, commander of army forces in southern Yugoslavia, including Kosovo, told Serbian reporters that Yugoslavia was preparing "for an all-out war." He seemed to dare NATO to send in ground troops, and he, too, crowed about military prowess.
"In case of an intervention on the ground in Kosovo, NATO would face 150,000 armed men," Pavkovic said. "Even if every third bullet [my men] fire hits a target, it will be a price the aggressor will have to pay for coming into our country."
Milosevic's Serbian forces launched a crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in February 1998, a conflict that killed 2,000 people over the next 13 months. Since mid-March, the pace of killing has quickened substantially.
NATO spokesman Shea estimated that Serbs may have killed 3,200 Albanians in Kosovo in the last three weeks. NATO yesterday disclosed aerial photographs of what it said could be as many as 150 fresh graves near the Kosovar town of Izbica.
"It's clear that there is mounting evidence of detentions, summary executions and mass graves," Shea said.
Shea said that in addition to those reported atrocities, Serbian troops were burning livestock, "making it particularly difficult for those still in Kosovo . . . to feed themselves."
Clark, who later yesterday traveled to Italy, told reporters at the Aviano air base that NATO pilots were seeing signs of ethnic cleansing on a "staggering" scale and that they reported villages in flames throughout Kosovo.
Yugoslav authorities have said that NATO bombings have killed 500 civilians, although, as with NATO's Kosovo estimates, there is no way to independently confirm the accounts.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WAR IN THE BALKANS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
With all their belongings - clothes, a cooking pot, some water - members of a Kosovar family enter a refugee camp in Kukes, Albania. (JOHN COSTELLO, Inquirer Staff Photographer)

Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC 
All Rights Reserved

700 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

April 11, 1999, Sunday Metro Edition

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
 GUANTANAMO BAY;
 U.S. base is a dump, some say, but refugees still may go

BYLINE: Shelley Emling, Staff Correspondent

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: Miami

Aritonne Georges grew up in Haiti, the Western Hemisphere's poorest country. At 21, he spent three days at sea aboard a flimsy boat trying to escape a brutal military regime.
Yet he claims he passed the worst days of his life at Guantanamo Bay, the U. S. Navy base in Cuba. 
"The toilets spilled over and no one bothered to clean them," said Georges, 28, a Lake Worth, Fla., resident who stayed at the base for a month in 1992. " You had to wait two hours in the hot sun to get your meals."
Georges said he prays none of the Kosovo refugees ever sets foot on the base, 4,700 miles from their home.
The possibility of that happening was announced Tuesday by President Clinton. He said the United States would provide temporary refuge for up to 20,000 ethnic Albanian victims of the Kosovo crisis there.
Thursday, some administration officials said the plan might be scrapped because refugees could be better off in Albania and other parts of Europe closer to their homes. Many refugees had expressed a desire to stay closer to Kosovo, and few seemed thrilled at the prospects of a stay at Guantanamo.
Friday, U.S. officials said they planned to retain the option of housing refugees in Cuba and that, just because Kosovo refugees aren't anxious to go now, that does not mean they won't want to in two or three weeks.
"This option may look more attractive to refugees down the road," said Navy Lt. Jane Campbell of the U.S. Southern Command, or Southcom, which oversees military operations in the Caribbean and Central and South America.
Southcom officials continued Friday to prepare the dusty, 45-square-mile base for refugees. They said they could immediately accommodate 500 people, and up to 7,500 in one or two weeks.
They said several hundred planners, medical personnel and U.S. Army engineers from bases in Puerto Rico were due in Cuba over the weekend.
On Friday, the military transported enough lumber from Gulfport, Miss., to build frames for at least 100 tents.
"It's clear there's a strong reconsideration of the entire plan, but we're still driving onward unless we're told to stop," said Southcom's Lt. Col. John Snyder.
Civilians who have spent time at Guantanamo Bay said they're appalled that preparations continue, while refugee officials --- including the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees --- urged the Clinton administration to scratch the plan.
"The heat, isolation and the mosquitoes, which are called teeth because they hurt so bad, are enough to drive most people nuts," said Joyce Feilke, a school counselor from Austin, Texas, who worked on the base in 1997 and 1998.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution

705 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

January 16, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Leo Cherne, Refugees' Advocate, Dies at 86; Lawyer Headed International Relief Committee for 40 Years, Advised 9 Presidents

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 
Leo Cherne, 86, who was directly involved in most major refugee movements for four decades as head of the International Relief Committee, died Jan. 12 in New York. He had a pulmonary ailment.
For 40 years ending in 1991, Mr. Cherne was the chairman of the private, New York-based relief organization, which was founded in the 1930s to assist escapees from Nazi oppression in Europe. He was known as a dogged champion of refugees fleeing persecution. 
A lawyer and economist, he was "one of the most combative men ever bred," William F. Buckley wrote some years ago. "If he thought he was right about something, he would spend from now until doomsday pressing his view."
Mr. Cherne advised nine presidents and helped oversee the CIA as a member of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board from 1973 to 1991. He was staunchly anti-Communist. But in 1947, he became the first person to debate Sen. Joseph McCarthy (R-Wis.) before a national audience, on a radio program called "America's Town Meeting of the Air." Disgusted by McCarthy's demagogic tactics, he took him on again in 1952, at the peak of McCarthy's influence. That debate was considered so effective in exposing the senator that Life magazine published the entire transcript.
During the Hungarian uprising in 1956, Mr. Cherne and another International Rescue Committee official drove an old Chevrolet filled with medical supplies across the border from Austria to Soviet-occupied Budapest, periodically halted by armed men belonging to the popular forces. He was in Cuba in the early 1960s, in Cambodia in 1975, in Kenya in 1977.
"Just get there and do something," Mr. Cherne would say whenever a new crisis producing refugees erupted somewhere on the globe.
He raised millions of dollars for the relief organization, which was struggling financially when Mr. Cherne succeeded theologian Reinhold Niebuhr as its chairman. When Mr. Cherne returned from Hungary, he got himself booked on Ed Sullivan's television show to tell the American public about the plight of the refugees fleeing Soviet tanks. His appeal brought an immediate flood of donations, eventually totaling $ 2.5 million.
In 1984, President Reagan awarded Mr. Cherne the Medal of Freedom, citing his "moral passion" in the service of refugees.
Mr. Cherne was also a gifted sculptor. His bust of Albert Schweitzer was displayed in the Smithsonian. His head of Abraham Lincoln graced the Cabinet Room of the White House.
Before becoming active in refugee matters, Mr. Cherne worked in several law firms and became an expert on the new Social Security law. In the mid-1930s, he became partners with a Kansas Bible salesman named Carl Hovgard to sell a book about how to deal with the new law. Their venture grew into the Research Institute of America, which provided business leaders and policymakers with Cherne's assessments of how world events would affect them.
His forecasts earned him a national and international reputation. In the prewar years, Mr. Cherne helped plan the mobilization of industry for the war effort. After the war, he advised Gen. Douglas MacArthur on the reconstruction of the Japanese economy.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 The Washington Post

707 of 999 DOCUMENTS

Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

October 1, 1998 Thursday

CLINTON LOWERS REFUGEE PERMITS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

President Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year before.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press 
All Rights Reserved

708 of 999 DOCUMENTS

San Jose Mercury News (California)

October 1, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 195 words

* President Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year before. That restored the number to its fiscal 1997 level, the lowest figure in a decade. Admissions are based on country-by-country allocations made each year by the State Department.
* Congress has approved legislation that would allow colleges to notify parents when students younger than 21 commit an alcohol or drug violation, a measure sparked by a string of five alcohol-related deaths on Virginia campuses last fall. The bill needs only President Clinton's signature to become law; he said he is likely to sign the measure.
* Americans opened fewer than 55,000 tax-free medical-savings accounts during the first year and a half they have been available -- not even coming close to a 750,000-account cap lawmakers put on the experimental alternative to traditional health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Albright
[981001 FR 9A]

Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News 
All Rights Reserved

709 of 999 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

October 1, 1998, Thursday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Boats work to clean up mysterious oil spill

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO; WASHINGTON; ATLANTA; MANASSAS, Va.

 
Dead and dying birds were found coated with oil in coastal waters Wednesday  as skimmer boats worked to contain a 2,300-gallon spill.
"I expect the number of dead birds to keep going up," said Dana Michaels,  spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and Game. "It's just this  nasty, crusty gunk, big globs. And the sheen spreads over the surface of the  area for miles." 
Twenty-six dead birds were collected and 30 oil-covered birds were found  alive by Wednesday, two days after the thick, heavy oil was spotted 10 miles  from San Francisco.
Skimmer boats were sucking up what oil they could, and samples of the oil  were sent to Federal Oil Pollution Clean-Up Fund laboratories for comparison  with oil taken from ships that had recently traveled through the waters. 
 
Clinton cuts number of slots for legal refugees 
 
   WASHINGTON - President Clinton on Wednesday lowered the number of refugees  to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to  refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the  Caribbean.
In a memo to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized  entry of up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year  before. That restored the number to its fiscal 1997 level, the lowest figure  in a decade.
Under the new authorization, 48,000 refugees would be allowed in from  Europe, 9,000 from East Asia, 12,000 from Africa, 3,000 from Latin America and  the Caribbean and 4,000 from Near East/South Asia. An additional 2,000 slots  were not allocated. 
 
Americans' eating habits improve, study shows 
 
  ATLANTA - A study says Americans are eating almost 20 percent more  vegetables than they did a quarter-century ago, but many of the veggies aren't  green or leafy - they're deep-fried.
Twenty-five percent of the vegetables consumed by Americans are french  fries, according to Dr. Susan M. Krebs-Smith, author of a study in today's  edition of the journal Cancer.
The study said Americans have improved their diets since the early 1970s  but need to eat even better to help reduce their cancer risk.
Krebs-Smith, a research nutritionist with the National Cancer Institute,  said the explosion of fast-food joints makes potatoes - especially in the form  of french fries - the vegetable people eat most. Half of all servings of  vegetables Americans eat are potatoes, and half of those are french fries. 
 
Family plans to remove man's feeding tube 
 
   MANASSAS, Va. - Virginia's top health official made a last-minute appeal  Wednesday night to the family of a comatose man not to remove the feeding tube  that has kept him alive for 3 1/2 years.
The grieving family of Hugh Finn planned to remove the tube after a court  appeals deadline expired at midnight Wednesday.
But state Secretary of Health and Human Resources Claude Allen tried to  persuade the family to change its mind, even as state attorneys pondered ways  to keep the tube in place without the family's blessing.
Hugh Finn, a former Louisville, Ky., television news anchor, was injured in  a traffic accident in March 1995.
His wife's decision in June to remove the feeding tube divided the family  and led to a court battle over guardianship.
A judge ruled Aug. 31 that Michele Finn would remain as her husband's  guardian and had the right to remove the tube. The family dropped plans to  appeal, leaving her free to remove the feeding tube.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company

711 of 999 DOCUMENTS

Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

June 16, 1998 Tuesday

LACK OF MONEY TO CLOSE U'S REFUGEE STUDIES CENTER

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 272 words

The University of Minnesota's Refugee Studies Center has run out of money and will close at the end of June.
The center, which was created in response to the large influx of Southeast Asian immigrants to Minnesota, has failed to develop a strong research program that generates the money to continue, said Michael Metcalf, who oversees the center as director of the Institute of International Studies and Programs. 
"We (the institute) took it on as an at-risk project with the understanding that it would seek outside funding; the center has been unsuccessful in doing that," he said.
In the meantime, university officials are trying to find another place to house the center's research collection on refugees.
Immigrant advocacy groups have mounted a letter-writing campaign to try to save the center.
"When I first heard it was closing, I was shocked," said Hean Her, executive director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans. "The center over the years has worked to build a relationship with the refugee community, and it has given voice to the needs of the community."
Since its beginning in 1980, the center has grown to encompass the study of refugees from Africa, Central America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and other refugees from Asia.
"In the mind of the Hmong, this is the only place in the state of Minnesota where they can come and find materials to trace their history and culture," said Masami Suga, a program associate at the center. "It is especially significant for Hmong people who came here very young, or who were born here, and may not know much about their history in Laos."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press 
All Rights Reserved

722 of 999 DOCUMENTS

Daily News (New York)

December 01, 1995, Friday

CHEERS GREET G.I.S KIDS SHRIEK IN JOY AS SCOUTS TOUR BOSNIA CAMP

BYLINE: By RICHARD SISK

SECTION: News; Pg.  2

LENGTH: 511 words

 
ZIVINICE, Bosnia-Herzegovina Refugees cheered wildly and their kids danced in the muddy streets yesterday in sheer joy that the American G.I.s had finally arrived.
Clinging to the arms of the first three U.S. soldiers in Bosnia to visit the refugee camp in this town, swarms of children shouted, "America! America! America!"
The Americans tried to maintain their poker-faced, no-comment demeanor. 
But they failed utterly in the midst of the celebration smiling and laughing with their new friends.
Earlier in the day, the three G.I.s held a series of nuts-and-bolts meetings with United Nations and European officials in Tuzla, the headquarters for the projected U.S. peacekeeping force of 20,000.
But that workaday atmosphere disappeared completely as they drove their mud-splattered white pickup into the camp a complex of concrete-slab homes for refugees driven from the Muslim town of Srebrenica by Bosnian Serbs last summer.
In a scene reminiscent of the U.S. liberation of European towns during World War II, the adults spotted the unexpected G.I.s and lined the rutted road to wave and cheer.
Then the kids started to shriek and chase after the slow-moving vehicle.
Once the G.I.s stepped out, they were engulfed in children, who stretched their arms up to hug the G.I.s and grasp their hands.
The "America" chant went on nonstop until the G.I.s left about 15 minutes later, trailing a river of happy kids in their wake.
Also trailing closely and silently behind the Americans was a host of the tangled political, legal and moral problems of the region that the soldiers' superiors have vowed to avoid.
Defense Secretary William Perry insisted last week that U.S. forces in Bosnia would concentrate on the military mission of peace monitoring and steer clear of relief and development issues to avoid "mission creep."
But local relief and Bosnian army officials said overlap was inevitable and that they were eager for a meeting with the Americans.
"The [United Nations] has done logistical work for us, such as transport," said Laurent Sellay, head of the Red Cross for Bosnia's northeast sector, based in Tuzla. "Why not the U.S.? I don't know what the international community plans. We'll see what happens on the ground."
The three Americans who visited Zivinice, about 14 miles southwest of Tuzla, were part of a nine-man team led by Col. John Brown that arrived Wednesday.
The team has been scouting areas around Tuzla, including Zenica and Kiseljak to the southwest, as potential base camps for the main U.S. force.
Their mission appeared to be to lay the groundwork for an "inkblot" strategy to monitor the mountainous sector of northeast Bosnia, the U.S.' area of responsibility.
Under this strategy, American patrols from Tuzla and other strong points would fan out and link up with one another to keep the warring factions apart.
If put into practice, this plan would produce inevitable comparisons to the inkblot strategy in Vietnam that, in the end, failed to pacify the countryside.

LOAD-DATE: December 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JON NASO DAILY NEWS REFUGEE CHILDREN tag along as an American soldier tours their camp in Zivinice, Bosnia-Herzegovina, yesterday.

Copyright 1995 Daily News, L.P.

726 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 09, 1995, Wednesday, Final Edition

Fresh Balkan Refugee Wave Spurs Bickering in Europe; Donor-Weary Germany Tries to Spread the Burden

Rick Atkinson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A16

LENGTH: 1106 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Aug. 8

 
With scores of thousands of new refugees fleeing the latest fighting in the former Yugoslavia, Western Europeans again find themselves confronted with the divisive issue of whether to shelter the displaced or turn them away.
Last month's conquest by Bosnian Serbs of the mostly Muslim enclaves at Srebrenica and Zepa, followed by the weekend rout of rebel Serbs in the Krajina by the Croatian army, has forced about 185,000 civilians from their homes, according to figures provided today by the U.N. Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Geneva.
Nearly 735,000 refugees from Bosnia and Croatia already have fled that war-torn area in the last four years, with the vast majority settling in the prosperous democracies of the European Union. This latest wave has provoked bickering over how and where to accommodate newcomers who head north, as well as a renewed surge of the-boat-is-full xenophobia. 
The debate may be loudest in Germany, which has sheltered more Balkan refugees -- at least 350,000 -- than the rest of Western Europe combined at a cost approaching $ 8 billion. This morning's Bild, Germany's biggest daily newspaper, captured the prevailing wariness with a front-page photo of a refugee column in Bosnia and the headline: "The Great Escape -- How Many Are Coming Here?"
Politicians and ordinary citizens alike, while generally reluctant to seal off German borders to the southern Slav huddled masses, have asked why Berlin alone -- with about 40,000 refugees from the former Yugoslavia -- should have three times as many as all of France, six times as many as Britain or 10 times as many as Spain.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl on Monday proposed a special EU conference in September to tackle the issue of burden sharing. Although it is "proper" for Germany to accept a larger proportion of refugees given the country's size, wealth and historical obligations in Europe, Kohl said, "The current situation is not acceptable. . . . We will do what we can, but others have to do more."
Likewise the Swiss, who have had a lively debate on whether to accept more than the 32,000 Balkan refugees already admitted, this week suggested an international conference to coordinate the treatment of civilians fleeing the war zone. "Coordinated action is more productive than random action by individual states," Swiss Justice Minister Arnold Koller told reporters.
While the Balkans war has horrified the rest of Europe with its internecine bloodshed and "ethnic cleansing," the refugee issue has played no small part in the continent's trauma. Right-wing politicians in France, Austria and elsewhere have capitalized on xenophobic resentment and fears of uncontrolled immigration. The steady procession of displaced persons from Bosnia and Croatia is widely seen as both expensive and potentially destabilizing.
Aid organizations also report a perceptible donor weariness by Western Europeans who are tired of Bosnia and now Croatia and no longer as heart-stricken as they once were by televised scenes of misery. The German Red Cross, for example, noted recently that donations for Bosnian war victims declined from $ 3.4 million last year to $ 500,000 through the first six months of 1995.
"For many people it's quite difficult to understand the causes of this war, who's fighting, the reasons for fighting," said Stefan Teloeken, spokesman for the UNHCR office in Bonn. "There's a mass exodus from one side and, then three weeks later there's a mass exodus from the other side. . . . It's very hard to follow, even for people who have to follow it."
Last week, before the Croatian upheaval in the Krajina, the UNHCR appealed to more than 30 governments to provide temporary haven for another 5,000 war victims and "to be prepared with contingency plans for up to 50,000 more, should an emergency arise." Although the situation has since reached emergency status, thus far only Britain has offered to accept 500 more refugees, Teloeken said.
Relief agencies are not only uncertain how many displaced persons will flee the Balkans as the summer wanes, they also are uncertain which ethnic groups are most likely to be affected. Although Serbs are tramping out of the Krajina now, many may settle in Serb-controlled northern Bosnia, pushing out the remaining Muslims and Croats.
"The political question always is what kind of people are the governments prepared to admit," Teloeken added. "Are they prepared to admit Bosnian Serbs as well as Muslims or Croatians?"
France, Britain and Spain, which collectively have admitted only 26,000 refugees, argue that they have contributed to international efforts in the Balkans by contributing peacekeepers and humanitarian aid. A Foreign Ministry official in France, which has sent the largest contingent to the U.N. force in Bosnia as well as a sizable portion to the new Rapid Reaction Force, said European nations must maintain "a certain autonomy" and "flexibility" in determining how many refugees to admit.
German officials concede the importance of such peacekeeping contributions while noting that Germany has now deployed both medical teams and an air force combat unit for duty in the Balkans. But Bonn's push for an EU-wide agreement on the distribution of refugees thus far has been frustrated; European interior and justice ministers tried in vain two months ago to agree on a quota system.
"Common European refugee policy is really an anti-refugee policy," columnist Heribert Prantl wrote recently in the daily Sueddeutsche Zeitung. "Instead it takes the form of every country pointing at every other country."
German Interior Minister Manfred Kanther ignited a storm of criticism within Germany by asserting last month that "we have fulfilled our duty" and should consider a tougher line against refugees -- a suggestion which caused a spokeswoman for the Greens party's parliamentary faction to accuse the government of "state-sponsored racism."
But few other officials in Bonn have publicly shown much appetite for slamming the door altogether. Even Kanther last week bowed to public pressure by delaying for at least one month the resettlement of 15,000 Croatians in Germany who were to be returned to the Krajina beginning Aug. 15 under an April 1994 agreement between Zagreb and Bonn.
And the Kohl cabinet reaffirmed today Germany's willingness to accept more refugees in the future -- while urging its neighbors to help shoulder the burden. "If necessary Germany will of course take in more Yugoslav refugees," government spokesman Herbert Schmuelling said. "But it cannot assume this task alone."

LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, Where Are They Now?  Primary destinations for refugees from the former Yugoslavia as of March of this year. The total number of refugees counted was 734,970.  1. Germany ................ 350,000 2. Italy ..................  54,600 3. Austria ................  52,000 4. Sweden .................  48,500 5. Netherlands ............  45,000 6. Switzerland ............  32,100 7. Turkey .................  30,000 8. Denmark ................  17,500 9. France .................  15,900 10. Austria ................  14,000* 11. United States ..........  12,820* 12. Canada .................  11,640 * Includes resettlement cases in Austria and resettlement or asylum cases in the United States.  SOURCE: United Nations estimates

Copyright 1995 The Washington Post

727 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 28, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

The Least We Can Do

Robert P. DeVecchi; John Fredriksson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg.  A27

LENGTH: 905 words

 
The humanitarian tragedy in Bosnia has reached a new extreme. The suffering of the latest groups of refugees demands a resolute and vigorous response. As Serb aggressors have taken over Bosnia village by village, killed thousands of innocent Bosnian civilians and "ethnically cleansed" entire regions in recent years, the United States and its European allies have pursued policies that are little more than appeasement. Now that Srebrenica and Zepa have fallen, it is clear the line we have drawn has not halted aggression, murder or the suffering of innocent women and children.
Among the many policy options the president has before him, there is a specific and concrete tool at his disposal that would at least ameliorate the suffering of some of the refugees. The U.S. refugee resettlement program can easily be expanded to welcome into our communities Bosnian refugees who need resettlement because they have no other options if they are to survive. 
The administration will soon consult Congress about the 1996 refugee admissions program. If there is any group of refugees that deserves special attention now, it is the Bosnians. The United States continues to lead the world in providing a haven to refugees who have been persecuted by despots around the world. It is time now to exercise that leadership as regards Bosnian refugees.
Resettling refugees in our country is an important tool of foreign policy. It is a tangible symbol of this country's deep humanitarian tradition of caring for oppressed and persecuted peoples. Private voluntary agencies, churches, synagogues, community groups and local governments have shown the world what America is made of when we have welcomed refugee groups. We know all too well from the 1930s the consequences of inattention to the needs of refugees.
Resettlement also plays a fundamental role in international relations. First asylum countries like Croatia will continue to welcome refugees such as those now fleeing Srebrenica and Zepa only if they can be assured their stay will be temporary. And there are alarming trends in Europe today, especially in Croatia, as governments begin to close their doors to Bosnian refugees. Some countries are planning to force Bosnians back.
There are thousands of Bosnians in precarious exile in Croatia, Austria, Germany, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Spain and other European countries. Croatia has shouldered the burden and provided asylum to more than 183,000 refugees and 192,000 internally displaced persons (as of July 14, 1995). In contrast, the United States has resettled approximately 15,000 Bosnian refugees in the past 2 1/2 years.
In light of the tragic events of this past week and the likelihood that larger refugee flows will result from continued Serb aggression, European asylum countries will resist accommodating new refugee flows. Some of them already in Europe are without legal status, yet have family members in the United States who could help. Others cannot get access to the U.S. program because they do not meet U.S. criteria. Many are forgotten in light of the more tragic situation facing their fellow citizens in Tuzla and Gorazde.
A fundamental obligation we in the United States and our European allies must fulfill is to safely evacuate refugees from those U.N. "safe areas" that have not fallen into Serb hands. These refugees came to the "safe areas," such as Srebrenica and Zepa, under the U.N. guarantee that they would be protected. If the United States and European allies are unable or unwilling to stop Serb aggression against these enclaves, we should at least get the people out.
But we cannot evacuate refugees unless there is a place for them to go. This means there will be no room for the newest victims of ethnic cleansing unless we are willing to move some of the earlier refugees on to permanent new homes.
In its planning for 1996, the State Department has presumed that no new refugee crisis would arise necessitating an expansion of the resettlement program. In fact, the Clinton administration planned to reduce overall refugee admissions from 100,000 to 90,000 in the coming year. Only 10,000 places were planned for Bosnian refugees out of this total. This number, given the tragic events of last week and the uncertain future for Bosnians in the coming months, is no longer defensible. We need to admit an additional 10,000 Bosnian refugees in 1996, which would increase the total to 20,000. The president can demonstrate America's commitment to human rights and refugee protection by proposing this in the upcoming annual refugee consultations. The administration can also expedite the movement of those refugees already in Croatia now approved to come to our country, so that as many refugees as possible can be admitted before the end of the fiscal year.
The president would encounter little opposition if he moved to help a few more Bosnian refugees rebuild their lives through resettlement in our country. It is the right thing to do, and has the support of the American public. Those of us who have worked with refugees for many years can attest to the fact that the American people open their hearts and give of themselves to help refugees most in need, no matter from where.
Robert P. DeVecchi is president of the International Rescue Committee. John Fredriksson is Washington representative of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1995 The Washington Post

731 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 27, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Ugo J.A. Carusi Dies at 92;
Headed Post-World War II Refugee Programs

Bart Barnes, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B4; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 1285 words

Ugo J.A. Carusi, 92, a specialist in issues involving post-World War II refugees who served as the first chairman of the U.S. Displaced Persons Commission, died of heart ailments July 21 at his home in Washington.
Mr. Carusi also had served as commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization during the final months of the war and immediately thereafter. Previously, in the Coolidge, Hoover and Roosevelt administrations, he was executive assistant to six U.S. attorneys general.
He was considered one of the architects of the postwar displaced persons and refugee programs, having served from 1948 through 1950 as chairman of the three-member Displaced Persons Commission. In that capacity, he was chief administrator of a program in which about 400,000 European refugees displaced by the war were resettled in the United States. 
His appointment to that position followed a special assignment to the State Department to work on refugee problems and a three-month tour of about 100 displaced-person camps at the direction of President Truman. An estimated 1 million refugees had fled to the camps in Western Europe from Poland, the Baltic States and the Balkans.
In his role as chief of a massive refugee resettlement program, Mr. Carusi often faced congressional critics, notably Sen. Pat McCarran (D-Nev.), who contended that screening procedures for security risks were insufficient. Others complained that the wording of the displaced-person law worked to exclude Jewish refugees from the United States.
After his service as chairman of the Displaced Persons Commission, Mr. Carusi was chief of the U.S. mission to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and later deputy director for Refugees, Migration and Voluntary Foreign Aid.
Later, Mr Carusi served on President Eisenhower's Committee for Hungarian Relief after the Budapest uprising of 1956. He retired from government service in 1963 after having served on the staff of Sen. George Aiken (R-Vt.)
Mr. Carusi was born in Carrara, Italy, when his parents, both of whom were naturalized U.S. citizens, were on a visit to their homeland. He grew up in Barre, Vt., and worked while in high school in the office of the state's attorney, where he learned shorthand. Later, he worked in the office of the Vermont attorney general.
In 1925, he came to Washington as executive assistant to John G. Sargent, who was Calvin Coolidge's attorney general, and later served in a similar capacity to Attorneys General William D. Mitchell, Homer S. Cummings, Frank Murphy, Robert H. Jackson and Francis Biddle.
He received a law degree and a master's degree in law from National University Law School. Later, he taught constitutional law and administrative law there.
Mr. Carusi served in 1967 as a member of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Aid. He visited Vietnam to study problems involving refugee children in the Southeast Asian war.
He also had served as chairman of the Jury Commission of the District of Columbia.
He was a former member of the Lido Civic Club, a Mason and a member of St. David's Episcopal Church in Washington. He played golf.
Mr. Carusi's first wife, Edith Warner Carusi, and an infant son, Colin, died in 1935. His second wife, Anita Sheaffer Carusi, died in 1984 after 44 years of marriage.
Survivors include a sister, Iole Carusi of Barre.
RICHARD R. JAWORSKI
Educator and Poet
Richard R. Jaworski, 53, a Montgomery County high school teacher who was work-study program administrator at Springbrook High, died of a heart attack July 21 at Montgomery General Hospital. He lived in Rockville.
Mr. Jaworski was born in Detroit. He was a graduate of the University of South Florida, where he also received a master's degree in English literature.
He taught high school English in Bradenton, Fla., before moving to the Washington area in 1968.
He taught English at John F. Kennedy High School and came to Springbrook in the mid-1980s to be the director of its Cooperative Work Experience Program.
Mr. Jaworski was a poet whose work was published in the Ann Arbor Review, Tampa Poetry Review and Encounter magazine.
His work is to appear in the "Anthology of American Poets" published by the National Library of Poetry.
He was president of the Maryland Association of Cooperative Education, a director of the Montgomery County Education Association and Maryland State Teachers Association and vice president of the Montgomery County Citizens Action Board.
His marriage to Victoria Moore Jaworski ended in divorce.
Survivors include his wife, Phyllis Kamerow Jaworski of Rockville; a stepson, Andrew Gottlieb of Miami; and a brother, Anthony Jaworski of Silver Spring.
MARY LOUISE MAYERS
Hospital Official
Mary Louise Mayers, 47, who worked for Greater Southeast Community Hospital for 12 years before retiring in 1992 as its vice president for legal affairs, died of breast cancer July 25 at her home in Arlington.
She was a member of the American Association of Nurse Attorneys and a 1987 recipient of the D.C. Hospital Association's distinguished service award.
Mrs. Mayers, who moved to the Washington area from Arizona in 1979, was a nursing graduate of Spaulding College in her native Louisville, Ky. She received a master's degree in nursing from St. Louis University and a law degree from Catholic University.
Her marriage to David A. Elder ended in divorce.
Survivors include her husband, Russell S. Mayers of Arlington; a daughter from her first marriage, Ellen D. Elder of Cincinnati; a brother, Frank B. Harkness, and a sister, Kate Zaharchuk, both of Phoenix.
MARY J. HENHOEFFER
CIA Official
Mary J. Henhoeffer, 55, an official of the Central Intelligence Agency who retired in 1992 as executive officer in the Counternarcotics Center, died of leukemia July 25 at Georgetown University Hospital.
Mrs. Henhoeffer, who lived in Arlington, was born in Newark. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's degree in South Asia studies from the University of Wisconsin. She also had done postgraduate study at the University of California at Berkeley.
In 1963, she came to Washington and joined the CIA. She worked in the Near East/South Asia directorate of operations and later on the staff of the CIA inspector general.
In the Reagan administration, she served in the intelligence directorate of the National Security Council staff as director of intelligence liaison.
She was a former president of the Cherrydale Citizens Association and a member of St. Agnes Catholic Church in Arlington.
Her husband, William Henhoeffer, died in 1993. Survivors include a brother, Robert C. Jeffrey of Milford, N.J.
WILLIAM R. GARRISON JR.
Roofer
William Randolph Garrison Jr., 55, an Alexandria roofer, died of lung cancer July 26 at Grant Memorial Hospital in Petersburg, W.Va. He lived both in Alexandria and Maysville, W.Va.
Mr. Garrison was born in Alexandria and attended George Washington High School. He served in the Navy as a young man. He worked as a roofer for Virginia Roofing until retiring because of ill health in 1992.
His marriage to Sherry M. Garrison, ended in divorce.
Survivors include his wife Gloria Rose Garrison, of Alexandria and Maysville, and their son, Henry Jason Garrison of Alexandria; three children from his first marriage, William Thomas Garrison of Edgewood, N.J., and Elizabeth Ann Turner and Juanita Maria Garrison, both of Kansas City, Kan.; two stepdaughters, Kimberley Scott of Alexandria and Lorye Shaffer of Manassas; a sister, Patricia Miller of Alexandria; and three brothers, Robert Garrison and Donald Garrison, both of Alexandria, and Glenn Garrison of North Carolina; and four grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OBITUARY

Copyright 1994 The Washington Post

735 of 999 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

November 10, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.N. report: Refugees struggle amid racism

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 336 words

 More than 18 million refugees struggled to survive outside their homelands last year amid a growing tide of racism, the United Nations reported Tuesday.
In the first report of its kind, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said the number of refugees is nearly eight times worse than two decades ago, when the U.N. recorded 2.5 million refugees.
The United States was home to 473,000 refugees, the report said. 
"Refugees are the symptoms of the ills of an age," the U.N. report said. "The euphoria that greeted the end of the Cold War has given way to a sober reassessment of how refugees are affected by the new geopolitical realities."
Beleaguered governments, the report said, "are closing their doors in panic, while racist and xenophobic attitudes are on the rise. . . . Racism, and the violence that goes with it, all too often haunt refugees even after they have found asylum."
Germany is often cited in reports because of the high-profile situation - neo-Nazis and skinheads attacking refugees from the former Yugoslavia, Turkey and elsewhere.
But, the report notes, "the problem of xenophobia is widespread throughout Europe and elsewhere" - from Scandinavia to Switzerland, from France to Japan.
Last year, an average of 10,000 men, women and children became refugees every day, the 191-page report said.
In addition, 24 million people are displaced within their homelands' borders, the report said.
This dramatic rise in the number of people seeking asylum, the report warned, "has created a backlash against refugee and economic migrant alike."
UNHCR commissioner Sadako Ogata said the "traditional system for protecting refugees has come dangerously close to breaking down . . . and has seriously endangered the time-honored tradition of granting asylum to those in genuine need of protection."
The report said the refugee count breaks down as:
North America, excluding USA: 600,000.
Africa: 5.4 million.
Asia: 7.2 million.
Europe: 4.3 million.
Latin America: 883,300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.

736 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

November 10, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

World's Welcome Strained By 20 Million Refugees;
Xenophobia Surging, U.N. Commissioner Says

James Rupert, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A32

LENGTH: 490 words

An exploding global population of refugees is overwhelming the human tradition of giving asylum, a United Nations agency said yesterday.
One out of every 125 people in the world has been forced out of his or her normal life and home by civil war, persecution or violence, according to the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, Sadako Ogata, whose agency, UNHCR, released its first global study of refugees. Ogata said 19.7 million refugees live outside their home countries, more than eight times the number two decades ago, and another 24 million are displaced within their own borders. 
"At the start of the 1990s," with the passing of the Cold War, "optimists foresaw a reduction" in numbers of refugees, the report said. But the effective collapse of several states -- notably the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Somalia and Liberia -- has pushed millions of people into misery and overwhelmed the world's ability to respond, the report said.
With impoverished Eastern Europeans spilling into Western Europe -- and Haitian boat people and Chinese and Latin American migrants entering the United States -- the post-Cold War 1990s have been marked by "an alarming upsurge of hostile and xenophobic attitudes," Ogata said in releasing the report to journalists in Washington.
The report noted steps taken by countries around the world to close their doors to refugees. Public weariness with seemingly intractable conflicts, economic recession "and the rolling up of the West's ideological welcome mat for refugees from communist countries" have helped bring "the less hospitable climate facing refugees," it said.
UNHCR directed its worldwide appeal first at the United States, publishing the study initially in English and having Ogata release it in news conferences in New York and Washington. The book-length report, which was funded by a private Japanese donor, is to be published soon in other languages.
The report underscored the tussle between the Clinton administration and the United Nations over how to respond to the implosion or near-collapse of states such as Bosnia, Somalia and Haiti. The United Nations has been seeking a more active U.S. role in peace keeping and more aggressive, armed "peace enforcement" where nations have dissolved in civil war. But the administration, under domestic political pressure, has backed away from any such commitment -- even in Somalia, where it has troops in place.
Ogata praised the U.S. role in donating money and supplies to assure the basic survival of refugees, saying Washington's donations form 22 percent of her agency's budget. But the report stressed the need for international policy to quench civil wars. Helping refugees is "becoming more closely tied to peacemaking and peace-keeping efforts in their home countries," it said. "Virtually all the refugee-producing conflicts taking place in the world during . . . 1993 were within states rather than between them."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, THE WORLD'S REFUGEES (CHART IS NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

739 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 25, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Refugees in Slovenia

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C6; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 179 words

In his July 14 report on refugees "Wanted: 2,059 More Bosnians," David Ottaway ignores the situation in Slovenia.
Slovenia has accepted 75,000 refugees, mainly Muslims from Bosnia-Herzegovina, which represents 3.55 percent of Slovenia's population. Macedonia has accepted 40,000 refugees. Neither Slovenia nor Macedonia has generated any refugees.
The refugees are accommodated in more than 40 centers where they receive aid and education in their language.
Slovenia is encouraged by the support it receives from international agencies and people of the United States, particularly of Maryland and Ohio.
Slovenia will continue to extend its support to refugees and the victims of ethnic cleansing and other crimes. We also hope that other European and non-European countries will be ready to share a larger part in resolving this horrible humanitarian problem, which is also a result of their inactivity and their readiness to tolerate aggression, genocide and ethnic cleansing in Bosnia. ERNEST PETRIC Ambassador Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

741 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 22, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

Of Course They Want to Be Resettled in the United States

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A30; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 393 words

David Ottaway has done an excellent piece of reporting about the refugee crisis in Europe in "Wanted: 2,059 More Bosnians" [news story, July 13]. But the persons quoted from the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees and from the U.S. Embassy in Zagreb to the effect that Bosnian refugees do not want to come to the United States are either inexcusably misinformed or unpardonably duplicitous.
The United States did indeed offer to bring in 3,000 Bosnian refugees during the course of this fiscal year (to Sept. 30, 1993). The criteria established were for those with family already in the United States, former detainees from the Serbian concentration camps and their families and those "vulnerable persons" who had been particularly traumatized or brutalized by the war and for whom resettlement in a third country seemed to be the most humane option. More than 1,200 have already been processed to date. 
Applications for this last group were gathered by representatives of American private refugee relief agencies acting at the behest of the State Department. The refugees they interviewed and documented who met the "vulnerable persons" criteria were then reviewed by a representative of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees for official referral to the United States. This procedure was established by the State Department.
Here is the rub. The UNHCR, traditionally opposed to third-country resettlement and already stretched far beyond its means in providing humanitarian relief in Bosnia, has refused to pass on to the United States for resettlement more than 98 percent of the cases referred to it.
All told, 650 Bosnian refugee families (approximately 2,000 persons) who have been victims of persecution and violence and who have pleaded for the opportunity to be resettled in the United States have been presented to the UNHCR. Of these only nine cases, or approximately 30 refugees, have been determined to have suffered enough to be deserving of being referred to the United States for resettlement.
For the UNHCR or U.S. officials in Croatia to say there is a lack of interest on the part of Bosnian refugees to be resettled in the United States is patently untrue, and those who have contributed to blocking these refugees' options should be ashamed. ROBERT P. DeVECCHI President International Rescue Committee Inc. New York

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

742 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 14, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

Wanted: 2,059 More Bosnians;
U.S. Offers to Admit 3,000, but Few Willing to Go

David B. Ottaway

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: KARLOVAC, Croatia

The United States, despite its image as a choice haven for asylum, has run into an unusual problem in Bosnia: Not enough former detainees of Serb prison camps have volunteered to fill a congressional quota of 3,000 refugee visas for these victims of persecution.
"This is the one refugee program where people don't really want to go to the United States. They want to stay in the region and wait to go back home," said Rukhsana Parveen, a U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees official at a special center here for the former detainees of the Serbs.
"Going to America can be a horrendous experience for these people, particularly the old ones. These are rural people not made for a capitalist lifestyle," she added. 
Even the unusually generous offer of a green card for permanent residence a year after arrival, of resettlement assistance and of U.S. citizenship after six years has failed to lure many Bosnians to sign up.
"The Americans are upset, because we're not finding enough people," Parveen said.
According to U.S. Embassy statistics, fewer than a third of the Bosnians eligible have availed themselves of the congressional offer. Only 941 former detainees and their families either have left already or are in the process of going to the United States.
"People hold onto the hope they will be able to go home again," said Susan Hovanec, the U.S. Embassy public affairs officer in Zagreb, the Croatian capital. "Remember, this is forced emigration."
Ex-detainees bound for the United States after spending six to seven months in the Manjica prison camp, one of the harshest run by the Serbs, express a range of attitudes about their destination: deep reluctance, apprehension, bubbly enthusiasm.
Take, for example, the Muslim Crnalic family from Sanski Most in northern Bosnia. The eight family members, who span three generations and range in age from 11 to 86, are scheduled to be resettled in the Washington area.
The two sons, Samir, 22, and Namir, 19, and their father, Osman, 43, excitedly talked about the prospect of starting a new life over again, although they originally wanted to go to Canada.
Osman said he had dreamed of going to America since he was a child, partly because his family has relatives in Canada.
"When I was a child, the U.S.A. was heaven," he said.
Samir, an amateur radio operator and music buff who has managed to hang onto his tape recorder throughout his ordeal, already has taught himself to speak basic English: "We do not know what to expect in America."
Osman was so badly beaten in the Serb camp that he is just now able to walk without crutches, while Namir, repeatedly hit with truncheons on the back of his neck, still can hardly see out of his right eye.
Namir wears a pair of broken glasses upside down to read. He said he hopes he can get an operation in the United States to restore his eyesight.
The Crnalic family has been sleeping in bunk beds, piled up to the ceiling in one corner, in a small room of an old army barracks in the city's old quarters that today serves as the United Nations' placement center for the former detainees.
By contrast, the three Kandzic brothers seemed apprehensive as they awaited their final physical examinations before traveling to a new life somewhere in Texas. Zijad Kandzic had wanted to go to Britain because his wife, Katka, has close relatives there.
"It's not easy to go so far, but we have nothing to live on and have to go somewhere," said the 35-year-old heavy-machine operator. "It's more than one year that we have not worked."
"We wanted to go to Norway, to stay in Europe, but Norway was filled up with refugees already," said his brother, Dzevad, 28. "Then they put up a list [for the United States], and our names were on it."
For Zikret Kalabic, 29, who occupies another crowded room of the barracks, the prospect of going to the United States is particularly heart-rending, because his wife, Rezija, and two daughters are still in Bosnia.
"The problem is, I'm forced to leave for America," he said. "The U.S. government said at first I could wait to be reunited with my family. Now they say I must go. If I don't go now, I'll be denied refugee status."
Asked how he expected to make a living in the United States, Kabalic said he had no idea. His specialty was cutting fine stones.
"We just know we're going to America. We don't know where or what we will be given to do," he said. "We have to just say 'yes.' "

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: JOURNEY TO EUROPE, Part 4 of 4

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, WASHINGTON-BOUND:WHILE FAMILY MEMBERS PASS TIME ON BUNK BEDS IN KARLOVAC BARRACKS, SAMIR CRNALIC, LEFT, 22, AND BROTHER NAMIR, 19, SIT AND SMOKE IN CRAMPED ROOM. THE EIGHT FAMILY MEMBERS, BOSNIAN MUSLIMS AGES 11 TO 86, ARE TO BE RESETTLED IN THE WASHINGTON AREA. NAMIR HOPES AN OPERATION CAN RESTORE EYESIGHT DAMAGED BY BEATINGS IN A SERB PRISON. LUCIAN PERKINS; ILLUSTRATION, COMPILED BY JEANNETTE BELLIVEAU; MAP, LARRY FOGEL

TYPE: SERIES, FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1993 The Washington Post

749 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

January 10, 1993, Sunday

Q & A ON THE NEWS

BYLINE: Betty Parham and Gerrie Ferrisinternational; public; government; relations

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 2

LENGTH: 513 words

Do you have a question about the news local, national or international? Betty Parham and Gerrie Ferris will try to get and answer for you. Call 222-2002 on a touch-tone phone and follow the instructions.
Q: What is the Marine commandant's position on women in combat? I've heard that by law they can't be sent into combat, but I've seen pictures of women Marines in Somalia with rifles. Do they go out on patrols? 
Julia Miller, Atlanta
A: They do not go out on patrols. Gen. Carl Mundy, the Marine commandant, is opposed to putting women in front-line positions such as in rifle companies, said a Marine Corps spokesman. Women Marines in combat zones serve mainly in support positions such as logistics and communications. But because there is no perceived behind-the-lines area in Somalia, they can wind up in defensive positions. Their training is identical to that of their male counterparts, so they could defend themselves with their weapons if necessary.
Q: Are the Cubans who just flew in recently considered refugees? Explain exactly what is a refugee, and how many are there in the United States and worldwide?
Ann Lipsky, Athens
A: Refugees, according to Hazel Wright of the State Department's Bureau of Refugees, are people who have been found to have a well-founded fear of persecution for political, racial, religious or nationality reasons and have gone to a U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulate in their country and applied and been processed to come to the United States.
They do not include those who come with visas, who are not suffering persecution, who come to join family members or who come through an immigration lottery process. They also do not include people who arrive illegally and request asylum; those people may or may be granted asylum. Cubans, because of U.S. laws passed during the height of tension between the United States and Cuba, are in a different category. Generally they are allowed in.
In 1993, Ms. Wright said, 132,000 refugees will be permitted to enter the United States. (Last year 142,000 were admitted.) The region of origin breakdown will be ex-Soviet republics, 50,000; East and South Asia, 59,000; Africa, 7,000; Latin America and the Caribbean (mostly Cubans and Haitians), 3,500; Eastern Europe, 1,500; unallocated, 11,000.
Congress mandates the funding, the number of refugees and the location from which they will be received. Although the Refugee Bureau can shift numbers from area to area, if a vast number of people from an area were eligible, the bureau would have to ask Congress for more money or more slots.
From 1980 to 1992, 1.2 million refugees were allowed into the United States. There are 17 million refugees in the world.
Q: What is the difference between a Muslim and a Moslem?
Bill Sanders, Tucker
A: They are the same thing; the difference is a matter of spelling and pronunciation. Moslem had been more widely used in English to refer to an adherent of Islam, but that usage has declined in favor of Muslim. The old terms Mohammedan and Mohammedanism have always been rejected by Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930200162

Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution

755 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

May 28, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Populations on the March

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 819 words

Haiti's boat people are part of a rising flood of refugees and economic migrants who strain the quality of mercy among their affluent neighbors.
This flood of refugees stirs political resentment and backlash across the developed world. The strangers in our midst (or those trying to get here) have become a serious but inadequately discussed problem for modern governments.
Fearful for their safety or their subsistence, millions of people are sweeping past national and local boundaries made obsolete by a global economic transformation and the political revolutions of this era. Populations on the march are both catalyst and consequence of global change. 
President Bush rejects refugees his own policies have helped create. This week he ordered American ships to turn back all boats carrying fleeing Haitians, pushing them back to a land the United States seeks to devastate economically and isolate politically.
America's punitive sanctions are aimed at Haiti's illegitimate junta. But their impact falls primarily on the island's people. As in Iraq, the American government attempts to coerce an unarmed populace into rising against a brutal regime that America itself will not overthrow by force.
American sanctions encourage Haitians to become economic refugees -- people who seek a more secure life but who cannot show they are specific targets of political persecution. But in a variation on Catch-22, America refuses to take in Haitians because they are economic refugees.
Worse: Until recently America piously condemned Britain for forcibly repatriating Vietnamese boat people from Hong Kong's overcrowded refugee camp. Now Washington is doing exactly what it told London not to do.
The White House says the change on Haiti was dictated by overcrowding at the U.S. base at Guantanamo Bay, temporary home for 12,000 of the 34,000 Haitians picked up by the Coast Guard since September. But the limits of American compassion count as much as the limits of Guantanamo.
Political advisers warned Bush months ago that he risked losing Florida's electoral votes if he did not quickly stem the Haitian refugee flow. The president resisted that advice. His plunge in the polls means he can take nothing for granted now.
But America's immigration problems are still small compared with what is happening in Europe and the Middle East.
War has driven nearly 1.5 million people from their homes in the former Yugoslavia, producing what officials in the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees call "the most serious refugee crisis in Europe since World War II." Some 200,000 Croatians have fled into neighboring countries and Germany.
Like Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front in France, German neo-fascist parties are prospering politically in a time of slow or no economic growth in industrial democracies. Resentment deepens over Europe's decade of 7 percent to 10 percent unemployment. Arab, Turkish, Persian and African immigrants are easy scapegoats for the complex problems of economic change.
The picture looks different in the Third World and in the former Second World of the Soviet bloc. Trapped in deteriorating or disintegrating economies or states, the populations of these countries see the affluent consumer societies of the West leaping into a new technological era. Their own societies are left behind to sink deeper into poverty as fiber optics, transistors and synthetics replace the minerals and primary goods that once provided them a living.
With the European Community, the North American Free Trade Area and Japan's Asian sphere taking shape, the outsiders see a train leaving the station. They run to jump aboard however they can. Just as capital, ideas and technology easily cross modern frontiers, so now does a proletariat seeking jobs or state support.
The pushes and pulls for each refugee flow are specific and different, ranging from war to economic opportunity. The line between economic and political refugees is rapidly blurring in the post-communist world. Each new flow of desperate people draws an ad hoc, Band-Aid response from the developed country or countries involved.
But enough common features connect the different parts of the refugee crisis to enable governments to talk to each other and to their publics much more specifically about targeting aid, investment and trade in a coordinated way to encourage would-be refugees to stay put and wait for prosperity and security to come to them.
Senior-level coordination and commitment is needed rather than ad hoc answers. I don't begrudge the attention the Environment Summit in Rio is getting. The environment is an urgent, serious problem too. But I have to wonder, as the publicity for the Rio heads-of-state meeting moves into top gear, why starving, destitute people cannot get the same high-level attention as rain forests, greenhouse gas emissions and spotted owls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

Copyright 1992 The Washington Post

757 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

February 7, 1992, Friday

Does the United States have room to take in this boy? NO U.S. can't take in all refugees

BYLINE: Marilyn Geewaxhaiti; immigration; fugitives; government; conditions; policy; united/states

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 9

LENGTH: 548 words

In 1939, the S.S. St. Louis, a ship carrying 937 Jews, left Hamburg, Germany. The refugees, fleeing the insanity unleashed by Nazis, hoped to find freedom in America. The ship drew so close to Miami they could see the palm trees and cars along the shore. 
But President Roosevelt ordered the ship to shove off. The St. Louis returned to Europe, where most of its passengers were rounded up by Nazis and sent to Hitler's death camps.
Franklin D. Roosevelt was a man of great compassion, yet he refused to save those pathetic people. By turning them back, he signed the execution orders for many hundreds of innocent souls.
I never could understand his coldhearted decision. Didn't he feel guilty about returning Jews to a country ruled by madmen?
Now, our generation is facing a refugee problem that in many ways echoes Roosevelt's dilemma. We sit numbly, watching TV reporters show us boats full of Haitians stretching out their arms to America. The refugees are miles from Florida, but salvation is beyond their reach.
So far, 12,000 Haitians have been rounded up at sea and sent to U.S. camps at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. Observers estimate another 20,000 would- be refugees are massing on Hait's shores hoping to get a spot on a boat to make their escape.
Our government is sending them back, saying they have no right to asylum. While the refugees are not returning to mass executions, many individuals may very well be murdered.
By turning away their boats, we may be signing the execution orders of hundreds. I know this, and yet I can't bring myself to say President Bush is wrong.
If we let in the 12,000 in Guantanamo Bay, how many hundreds of thousands might follow? All 6 million Haitians have good reasons to flee. If we let all of them enter America, can we then say no to the Nicaraguans, Costa Ricans, Venezuelans and others who will want to follow?
The great majority of Haitian refugees don't speak English. Many are ill. Few own anything but the rags on their backs. What will they do for housing in a nation that already has so many citizens living in the streets?
It breaks my heart to say such things. As the grandchild of desperately poor immigrants, I have great sympathy for refugees.
I am thankful my grandparents were allowed into Ellis Island despite their lack of skills. And I believe we still have room for more immigrants who bring nothing here but a desire to work hard. Indeed we need newcomers, who always have served as our nation's economic engine.
But taking in huge numbers of destitute people in the midst of a long economic downturn would only cause political turmoil, anger and instability here.
Our government's focus must be on helping Haitians make their own country viable.
In the long run, boosting Haiti's economy is the only way to discourage poverty-stricken refugees from heading north.
We also need a fairer immigration policy. It is wrong to continue to admit Cubans wholesale while turning away Haitians who may face much more political persecution and physical danger.
But in the short run, we must reject those Haitians now at Guantanamo Bay. And we must accept that future generations may look back at our decision and wonder how we could have been so coldhearted.
Ms. Geewax is a Constitution editorial writer.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution

758 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

February 4, 1992, Tuesday

Victims of Cold War? Critics blame left-over anti-Communist policies, election-year jitters for closed door to fleeing Haitians.

BYLINE: By Deborah Scroggins STAFF WRITERunited/states; immigration; policy; haiti; international; statistics

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 1

LENGTH: 678 words

U.S. refugee policies that are a relic of the Cold War and election- year worries are driving the Bush administration's forced return of thousands of Haitian boat people, administration critics charged Monday.
The Coast Guard shipped the first 381 Haitians back to the economic and political chaos of their country Monday, after the Supreme Court lifted an injunction barring their forced return over the weekend.
The government is expected to repatriate more than 6,000 others encamped at the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, who say they fear political persecution at the hands of Haiti's military dictatorship.
The Bush administration has said only 3,609 of the about 11,000 Haitians at Guantanamo Bay qualify to apply for political asylum in the United States. But politicians and refugee advocates claim the administration is judging the Haitians by different standards than Soviet or Vietnamese refugees because the Haitians are poor, black and persecuted by the wrong people. 
Also, almost all Cubans fleeing the Communist regime of Fidel Castro are granted political asylum in the United States.
"Unfortunately, the question of who gets asylum is largely based on political considerations," said Hiram Ruiz, a policy analyst at the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a non-profit group in Washington, D.C.
"In the case of Haiti, the political consideration is not whether these individuals have a legitimate fear of political persecution, but what impact the arrival of a large number of poor, rural, not very well- educated people will have on this country."
State Department officials contend the Haitians are seeking economic opportunities in the United States, and they point out that only a handful have fled to the neighboring Dominican Republic. But some privately admit that refugee policies left over from the Cold War still make it difficult for people fleeing non-Communist dictatorships to receive refugee status.
Each year the State Department and Congress jointly work out a system of regional refugee quotas, and each year all but a tiny number of spots go to people fleeing Communist countries.
Of the 1,203,609 refugees admitted to the United States since 1981, 94 percent have come from Communist countries.
Despite the end of the Cold War, refugee policies remain focused on the former Soviet empire, partly out of inertia and partly because of strong lobbying interests. Refugees from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe will make up 43 percent of the refugees resettled in the United States this year, notwithstanding the election of democratic governments in their homelands.
American Jewish organizations have lobbied fiercely to reserve a high quota for Soviet Jews, for example, and in recent years 80 percent of the Soviet newcomers have been Jewish.
"It would be naive not to admit that the existence of a strong American constituency makes a difference," said a State Department official who insisted on anonymity. "If a group has the ear of Congress, the ear of the administration, it can't hurt."
Vietnamese refugees will make up another 35 percent of those resettled this year.
Though soldiers overthrew Haiti's first democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in September, no places were reserved for Haitian refugees.
Democrats say President Bush has pressed so hard to repatriate the Haitians because he wants to ward off political attacks by Pat Buchanan. Mr. Buchanan, a conservative challenger for the Republican presidential nomination, has criticized Third World immigration.
Perhaps remembering the effect of the Mariel boatlift on President Jimmy Carter's re-election campaign, however, the Democrats have been slow to act. Several bills giving the Haitians temporary protected status in the United States remained stuck in House and Senate committees Monday.
In a speech before Atlanta's Concerned Black Clergy, Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey called the forced return of the Haitians "a terrible mistake." But the presidential candidate said he did not know what to do about it.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color photo: the first group of repatriated Haitian refugees leave a U.S. Coast Guard cutter in Port-au-Prince. Ran only in The Atlanta Constitution./ The Associated Press Bar graph: COUNTRY BY COUNTRY./ Ran only in The Atlanta Constitution. Numbers of refugees admitted to the United states from selected countries in 1991 Vietnamese......................... 44,179 Laotians..............................9,249 Iranians..............................2,692 Afghans............................. 1,480 Former Soviet Union republics........38,661 Romanians........................... 4,452 Ethiopians............................3,948 Cubans................................2,144 (Source: U.S. Committee for Refugees) Pie graph: Percentage of refugees admitted to the United States regions of the world 1991 U.S.S.R. and Europe.........41% Southwest Asia...............5% Southeast Asia..............48% Latin America................2% Africa.......................4% 1992 * U.S.S.R. and Europe.........45% Southwest Asia...............4% Southeast Asia..............37% Latin America................2% Africa.......................4% Map: shade coded to show boundaries of regions listed above - U.S.S.R and Europe, Southwest Asia, Southeast Asia, Latin America and Africa. Ran only in The Atlanta Constitution.

Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution

759 of 999 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

December 24, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Don't open floodgates

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 291 words

 Offering ''temporary'' asylum to Haitians poses two basic problems: Temporary asylum always turns out to be permanent. And it would encourage tens, perhaps hundreds, of thousands of people from that impoverished country, who do not face individual political persecution, to head for the United States. 
Like our wealthy allies in Europe, America is being overwhelmed by millions of poor people as Third World populations explode. Immigration is at all-time highs, and fairness to our own poor and our posterity demands that we set limits. By interdicting those fleeing poverty, our government is protecting our future.
Our immigration policy does not discriminate against Haitians. Since 1980, we have admitted nearly 140,000; some 1 million - a sixth of that country's population - now reside in the USA.
Some claim that if admitted, these Haitians eventually will go home. That won't happen. Each time ''temporary protection'' has been granted to other nationalities, the claimants never have been willing to leave. Rather, they quickly put down roots. Taxpayers, already reeling from the cost of absorbing large numbers of poor immigrants, would be forced to pick up the tab for health, education and other social services.
Admitting anyone who climbs into a leaky boat would invite thousands more to do the same. Half the people who attempt this trip never make it. The ocean and the sharks would claim far more lives than the junta ever could.
So long as our government carefully identifies and protects those who can show a genuine fear of persecution, the interdiction program accords with international law and should continue.
Interdiction is the only sensible - and responsible - policy imaginable under the circumstances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on the HAITIAN REFUGEES and whether they should be returned or allowed to stay.; OPPOSING VIEW; The United States is in danger of being swamped by millions of the world's poor.; Dan Stein is executive director, Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Copyright 1991 Gannett Company, Inc.

760 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 12, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

New Wave of Refugees Making Haven a Home;
Jobs, Kin, Chance Guide Refugees

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 657 words

The Slavic Pentecostal Church in West Springfield, Mass., was down to just seven aging members three years ago. Salvation came in a telephone call: Would the Rev. Pawel Lubanski help resettle Soviet Pentecostals seeking refuge in this country?
The first few Soviet families arrived during the spring of 1988 and sent word back to others to join them. By last fall, 1,500 Pentecostals and other Evangelical Christians fleeing the Soviet Union had arrived in the Springfield area. Another 400 are en route, awaiting final processing in Moscow. 
The arrival of the Soviets has given new life to Lubanski's congregation, now 400 members strong and housed in a white-steepled, century-old New England church. Russian women wearing babushkas now pray where proper Yankee Methodists once did. It is an enclave that is reshaping the demographic profile of the Springfield area.
Ninety miles away, just outside Lowell, a Cambodian monk prays in a Buddhist temple that six years ago was a Knights of Columbus hall. The monk, Sao Khon, was recruited from Thailand in 1985 by the quickly growing Cambodian refugee population in Lowell, a town that earlier this century attracted Greek and Italian immigrants to work in its mills.
The Cambodians, drawn by Massachusetts's once-booming high-tech industry, now number more than 20,000 and make up roughly one-fifth of Lowell's population.
The cultural geography of America, shaped nearly a century ago by the first great wave of immigration to this country, is in the midst of a second major revision as new immigrants like those in Springfield and Lowell create their own communities. Whether decided by bureaucratic resettlement programs, the pull of family and friends or economic opportunity, the fate of these newcomers will affect the character of towns and cities across the country.
Just as Boston today is a product of its Irish-immigrant populace, and Chicago of its eastern European neighborhoods, cities for decades to come will be painted by choices and decisions made during the 1980s. In some cases, the decisions are logical outcomes of economic conditions or policies, others are the result of pure chance.
The wave of immigration in the 1980s rivals that of the beginning of the century. Nearly 1 million of these new immigrants were refugees, most from Southeast Asia, the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Unlike the estimated 6 million other immigrants who entered during the decade -- both legally and illegally -- the refugees have been part of a "managed" resettlement process. That process, overseen by federal agencies and private resettlement organizations, provides federal, state and private aid in housing, jobs and other services.
Where those refugees are sent is, as in Pastor Lubanski's case, often a direct result of a church-related organization's willingness to help newcomers or of a state's immigration policies.
For example, more than 2,000 Ethiopian refugees have settled in Texas, most of them in Dallas, because a priest active with the U.S. Catholic Conference wanted to help. Texas has the third largest Ethiopian population in the country after California and the Washington, D.C., area.
And 300 Czechs and Slovaks have settled in Burlington, Vt., since 1986 because Judith May, the state refugee coordinator, encouraged them to come. "I thought they would prosper here," she explained in an interview, "and I thought they would not be turned away by the climate," something that deterred refugees from Southeast Asia.
Whether the initial cluster of refugees grows, drawing later immigrants into a permanent ethnic enclave, or whether the refugees move on or blend into the larger community, is something that may not be known for years.
The experiences of the new Soviet refugees in Springfield and the huge Cambodian refugee community in Lowell present contrasting portraits of uprooted people struggling to find a new place to call home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CHANGING FACE OF AMERICA, Part 2 of 3

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SANDY MILLER, WALKING HER CHILDREN, LIVES ACROSS FROM THE BUDDHIST TEMPLE NEAR LOWELL, MASS., WHERE SAVUTH PHAN, 10, RIGHT, WAS VISITING HIS GRANDFATHER. CAROL GUZY

TYPE: SERIES, NATIONAL NEWS

Copyright 1991 The Washington Post

761 of 999 DOCUMENTS

USA TODAY

July 1, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.N. learns about refugees

BYLINE: Lee Michael Katz; Wendy Benedetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 249 words

 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, says she learned a lot about how to deal with refugee problems from the Persian Gulf war.
Ogata, who met with President Bush last week to discuss the status of Iraqi civilians, says the commission will use this newfound knowledge to tackle other refugee problems around the world. 
''We are the ones who experienced it. We know where the weaknesses are and where to go for assistance. If we build up fast, we can manage (the Iraqi situation .''
Ogata says the commission's 1991 budget is $ 800 million. These volunteered funds go toward handling refugee problems around the world.
Ogata says the commission must raise all of the $ 800 million to be able to manage its agenda. So far, about $ 550 million has been donated, which is almost as much as last year's budget, she says. Iraq's refugee problem alone will cost about $ 267 million this year.
According to the commission, the refugee problem isn't unique to the Middle East but is a growing problem around the world.
- Asia: 6.7 million (China, 280,500; Thailand, 99,900; Hong Kong, 49,500)
- Africa: 4.6 million (Malawi, 822,500; Sudan, 767,700; Ethiopia, 710,200)
- North America: 1.4 million (USA, 1 million; Canada, 447,200)
- Latin America: 1.2 million (Mexico, 356,400; Costa Rica, 278,600; Honduras, 237,100; Guatemala, 223,100)
- Europe: 828,487 (France, 194,900; Federal Rep. of Germany, 150,700; Sweden, 139,800; United Kingdom, 100,000)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Inquiry

See main story; War's other victims; Iraq's children

Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.

762 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

April 11, 1991, Thursday, Final Edition

Iraq's Refugees: Latest Among Many Millions

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A35

LENGTH: 1020 words

It is a sight that has shocked the world -- the nightly images flickering across television screens of a massive wave of Kurds, Shiite Muslims and other minorities clogging Iraq's northern mountain passes and southern desert in a despairing effort to escape into neighboring Turkey or Iran.
But while modern technology has imparted a sense of dramatic urgency to the plight of those displaced by Iraq's brutal civil war, the story it tells is not new. The desperate exodus of more than 1 million Iraqi Kurds and Shiites is only the latest chapter in a saga of civil wars, natural disasters and other upheavals that has produced roughly 15 million refugees in the world today.
That is the conservative estimate of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The refugees have come from every part of the globe and are of every race and religion. Most are women and children, and as is the case with the Kurds and others trying to get out of Iraq, their flights frequently have been accompanied by imminent danger of death from starvation, exposure or execution by vengeance-seeking enemies. 
Although there have been refugees for centuries, the modern chapter of the exodus story began in the displaced persons camps of Europe immediately after World War II. In succeeding years, new links have constantly been forged in the chain. In the late 1940s and the 1950s, thousands fled the communist tyranny imposed on Eastern Europe. When the birth of Israel sparked the still unresolved Arab-Israeli conflict, thousands of Palestinians were forced into exile in Jordan, Lebanon and elsewhere in the Middle East.
No region has been immune. In this hemisphere, thousands have sought escape from communism in Cuba and, more recently, civil war in Central America. Long years of warfare in Southeast Asia created the Vietnamese and Cambodian "boat people"; conflicts on the Indian subcontinent caused shifts of almost 10 million people between India, Pakistan and Bangladesh; and the map of Africa has been pockmarked almost perpetually by massive migrations of people seeking relief from war and famine.
Iraq's invasion of neighboring Kuwait last Aug. 2 unleashed the grave new refugee problems now confronting the international community.
First, there were the thousands forced to flee Kuwait by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's occupation forces. Then, after the U.S.-led military coalition ousted the Iraqis from Kuwait in late February, rebellions by the Kurds and Shiites against the Iraqi government were crushed by Saddam's forces with a brutality that killed untold thousands and triggered the current flight of those who fear Baghdad's further repression.
The Iraqi situation has been complicated greatly by the contention of Turkey and Iran that they cannot accommodate the huge numbers seeking refuge. That has led to proposals that a Kurdish enclave or some kind of de facto safe zone be created inside Iraq where the Kurds would be safe from Saddam's vengeance.
U.S. officials say there are formidable and perhaps insurmountable political, diplomatic and military problems involved in trying to establish formal enclaves. Instead, the administration, sensitive to charges that President Bush helped to create the plight of the Kurds and Shiites by calling for Saddam's overthrow, has put its primary emphasis on providing the displaced Iraqis with humanitarian aid to stave off starvation and tide them over until some longer-range solution can be found.
Officials of UNHCR and other relief agencies such as the International Committee of the Red Cross agree that the first task is "protection" -- ensuring that the refugees are fed, clothed, housed and shielded from persecution in accordance with internationally accepted standards of human rights. However, the experts stress, even if sufficient relief is made available to prevent widespread death, the refugees still will face an uncertain and potentially bleak future.
Essentially, the experts say, there are three possible solutions to any refugee problem. One is voluntary repatriation, which requires a change in the repressive conditions that caused people to flee. Such change has been happening in Eastern Europe following the collapse of communism and in some parts of Africa such as Namibia, where independence from South African control has allowed majority black rule.
But there is little sign of liberalization in Iraq. Despite assurances from Baghdad that most of the displaced persons are free to come home, the fear and hatred of Saddam in the Kurdish and Shiite communities is so great that they are unlikely to go back voluntarily as long as he remains in power.
A more widely used solution for refugees has been their integration into the country to which they fled. That was accomplished successfully by Cubans in the United States and by East Europeans in a number of Western countries. But Iran and Turkey have made clear that settlement in their countries is not an option for those trying to flee Iraq.
A third potential solution -- resettlement in a more distant country -- becomes necessary when refugees cannot remain in the country where they first sought refuge. That was illustrated most vividly by the refusal of places such as Hong Kong and Thailand to give more than temporary refuge to the Southeast Asian boat people. The refugees from Iraq appear to face the same situation in Turkey and Iran.
Like the boat people before them, a few Iraqi refugees probably will gain entry to the United States or a European country. For most of them, though, there will be no place to go, and they will face the grim future that has befallen victims of other upheavals of the postwar era -- a dead-end life as people without a country in refugee camps supported by the charity of wealthier nations. It is a life that has made many of these camps -- those of the Palestinians in Lebanon or the Indochinese in Thailand -- breeding grounds for radicalism, subversion and guerrilla warfare against those the refugees blame for their troubles.Staff researcher Ralph Gaillard Jr. contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1991 The Washington Post

763 of 999 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

October 16, 1990, Tuesday, City Edition

Agreement may be near on child-care bill

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg.  4A

LENGTH: 633 words

 
Senate leaders say they are near an agreement with the White House on a $ 13-billion child-care bill that would provide matching money to states seeking to set up training programs and to subsidize state-regulated child-care centers. After years of efforts, it appears that Congress has finally devised the vehicle to provide federal money to modernize the nation's child-care system. Lawmakers involved in negotiations said the two sides are close to concluding an agreement under which participating states could either give families vouchers for day care or grant direct subsidies to centers.  The negotiations seek to avert a threatened White House veto on grounds that Senate and House versions of the bill establish a new and unnecessary federal child-care bureaucracy. By Monday evening, congressional aides said the main issue unresolved was how much federal money to distribute to the states. 
 Bush allows more refugees
 President Bush said Monday he was raising to 131,000 from 125,000 the number of refugees that can be admitted to the United States this year for humanitarian reasons. Bush raised to 50,000 the number of refugees permitted from the Soviet Union. Last year's ceiling on refugees from the Soviet Union was 42,000. Refugee limits for other regions are 52,000 from East Asia, 6,000 from the Near East and South Asia, 5,000 from Eastern Europe, 4,900 from Africa and 3,100 from Latin America and the Caribbean.
 Angry constituent says it with paint
 PEORIA, Ill.  An angry constituent is using House Minority Leader Robert Michel's house as a billboard to express displeasure with federal tax policies and pay raises. For the second time in nine months, a vandal has painted messages across the front of Michel's home of more than 35 years in this central Illinois city. "Cut Taxes, Deficit" and "Repeal Stolen Pay Raise" were sprayed in green paint on the front of the house. A dollar sign was painted on the door. A spokesman for Michel said the congressman was angry and disappointed about the incident, which happened over the weekend when Michel was in Washington. No one has been arrested and police reports list no suspects. Similar vandalism occurred in  February at Michel's house.
 Negotiators move forward on clean air bill
 House negotiators reportedly agreed Monday to give the steel industry more time to comply with tougher new toxic air pollution requirements. The action moved a House-Senate conference committee one step closer to overall agreement on the first reorganization of the nation's federal clean air laws in 13 years. The development appeared to set the stage for a settlement with the Senate over new controls on toxic chemical emissions from the industry as a whole. The Associated Press reported that House negotiators decided to give steel companies an additional 20 years, until the year 2020, to bring coke ovens in line with the rest of industry. The Senate proposal already has such a provision. The section on toxic emissions and another section on acid rain are the two major unsettled issues before the conference committee.
 Briefly. . .
 The House approved legislation Monday to create the post of chief financial officer for the U.S. government, a move designed to fight bureaucratic waste, fraud and mismanagement. The Bush administration opposes the bill.
 Vietnam's Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach will meet with administration officials Wednesday to discuss the possibility of providing additional information about the nearly 1,700 Americans f
f still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.
 President Bush said he will nominate Robert William Gambino, a 20-year veteran of the CIA, to be director of Selective Service.
 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Robert Michel

Times Publishing Company

764 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

October 16, 1990, Tuesday, Final Edition

Bush Approves Modest Rise In Immigration

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 126 words

President Bush yesterday authorized the admission to the United States of up to 131,000 refugees in the next 12 months, an increase of 6,000 over last year.
The government will pay the travel costs for all but 10,000 of the refugees, defined as fleeing persecution on religious, ethnic or other human rights grounds. Private sources fund the rest. Most would be from the Soviet Union, with an allocation of 50,000 people, and Southeast Asia, whose allocation is 52,000.
The total from Eastern Europe was down about 1,500, to 5,000, administration officials said, because democratic reforms have reduced the number seeking to emigrate. Other allocations were 6,000 for the Middle East and South Asia; 3,100 for Latin America and 4,900 for Africa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

Copyright 1990 The Washington Post

766 of 999 DOCUMENTS

St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

July 14, 1990, Saturday, City Edition

U.S. often rejects refugees

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 981 words

 
It wasn't anything out of the ordinary. It was just another flimsy boat on the choppy seas, crammed with 108 Haitians seeking a better life. And, like most such sailors, they were being sent back home. Forty-eight of them drowned Tuesday as their boat was being towed by a Bahamian patrol ship.
 
    A brief report in the Miami Herald said it was tragic the Bahamas refused to be a sanctuary for the Haitians but allowed one of its islands to serve as a cemetery for these dead refugees. The St.  Petersburg Times gave the Haitian deaths a few sentences on Page 12A on Friday. But mostly, the deaths went unremarked. 
 
    Nobody knew who the refugees were or why they fled. And it wasn't clear how they had drowned. One radio report said the refugees panicked and ran toward one end of the boat, making it capsize. The dead Haitians were piled on a fishing boat and buried nearby. The surviving Haitians were taken for questioning.
 
    Although international agreements on refugees promise that people who face persecution won't be sent back against their will, many nations do so. Refugees from poor nations are often thought to be fleeing poverty rather than political persecution, and they are returned forcibly.
 
    "There is danger of refugees being killed or persecuted when they are sent back to their countries, but countries still do it," said Hiram Ruiz, a policy analyst at the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a non-profit group that monitors refugee policies around the world.
 
    The United States, the world's largest asylum-giver, is a major offender; last year, more than 5,000 Haitians, 4,000 Guatemalans and 4,700 Salvadorans were forcibly returned, according to the U.S.  Committee for Refugees.
 
    Immigration officials say they don't deport refugees. They only send away people who don't fit their definition of a refugee.  "Anybody can make the claim that they are persecuted," said Verne Jervis, a spokesman of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in Washington, D.C. "They have to show whether this fear is real, or whether they're coming to get away from poverty, to get a better job. The burden is on them to make their case credible."
 
    The United States gives refugee status to people who prove they can be threatened because of their race, religion, ethnicity or political opinions if they return to their home country, Jervis said.
 
    Haitians make up the largest number of refuge-seekers who are
 rejected because they're the largest number caught. Most Central Americans cross land borders and seek asylum after they've crossed into the United States.
 
    But most Haitians set out in small boats and are turned back by the Coast Guard before they arrive within U.S. boundaries.  Haitians who make it to the United States can file for asylum and are detained in camps while they wait to see if they can stay permanently. If they are rejected, they are deported.
 
    As part of a special $ 30-million program to prevent an influx of Haitians, the Coast Guard monitors international waters to spot refugee-filled boats. Immigration officials on board question their motives. "They ask each of them why they've left Haiti, if they have any fear of returning to Haiti," Jervis said.
 
    "Most of them are very honest. They say they're coming to the United States to find work, so they can live better."
 
    And, rejected as refugees, they are taken back to Haiti on Coast Guard ships because their own boats are too flimsy. The Coast Guard sinks the Haitian skiffs "so they won't be a danger to other vessels."
 
    About 20,000 Haitians have been returned since the program began nine years ago. Thousands of others are deported out of D Miami and other centers because they aren't considered refugees.
 
    Of the 350 boats intercepted by the Coast Guard, less than two dozen Haitians have been accepted as refugees, Jervis said. In comparison, America accepted 29,000 refugees from the Soviet Union last year.
 
    Refugee groups say those who flee poor nations are unfairly suspected of being economic gain-seekers, but refugees from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are easily accepted as their persecution is assumed.
 
     It's hard to distinguish between economic and political suffering, said Ruiz, the Committee for Refugees analyst. "The people who were leaving East Germany said they were looking for freedom and a better life. The political dimension was there, but there was an  economic difference, too."
 
    And in a country like Vietnam or Haiti, political persecution can take an economic form, when jobs are denied and property is seized by officials.
 
    Other nations also have been known to turn back asylum-seekers.  Mexico, the source of many economic migrants to the United States, last year turned away at least 46,000 refugees from neighboring nations like Guatemala and Salvador.
 
    Malaysia has in the last year towed away more than 6,500 Vietnamese boat people and left them on the high seas. About 950 refugees voluntarily went back to Vietnam from Hong Kong, where 56,000 refugees wait in camps to be accepted by America and Europe. Many of the refugees were declared economic migrants, and impatient with their slow return, Hong Kong has speeded the process by forcibly airlifting some of them.
 
    South Africa turned away 34,000 Mozambicans fleeing the war in their country, while its burdened neighbor Malawi has given asylum to so many that one in 10 of its people today is a refugee.
 
    An international conference on refugees was scheduled to be held this year in Geneva but was postponed because of disagreements between governments.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Times Publishing Company

767 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 12, 1990, Thursday, Final Edition

Refugees Say Western Radio Pierced Albania's Armor of Isolation

BYLINE: Mary Battiata, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 987 words

DATELINE: PRAGUE, July 11, 1990

Speaking openly about life in Albania for the first time in their lives, the first 51 political refugees to reach safety abroad out of several thousand overflowing foreign embassies in Tirana painted a picture today of modern Albania at odds with its longtime image as the hermit of Europe.
Far from being ignorant of current events, the Albanians here said their countrymen tune in daily to the Voice of America and to Yugoslav and Italian radio broadcasts, in much the way Romanians did before their revolution. "Every day, all of Albania listens to the Voice of America, Italian radio, Yugoslavia, and we talk about it afterward," said Musa Hoxha, who, like many of the refugees, spoke fluent Italian. Some knew English, which they had taught themselves by listening to the radio. "So like this, we know everything that's happening in Europe and the rest of the world." 
That knowledge gave them the courage to try to flee the last hard-line Communist country in Europe, said Hoxha, 36, who described himself as a worker and former political prisoner. "All my life I dreamed to live in a democratic country," he said. "Now the new politics of Europe created the possibility also for me to leave."
He said it was news of Czechoslovakia's November revolution and the human-rights stance of President Vaclav Havel that led him and the other 50 refugees here to take refuge in the Czechoslovak Embassy in Tirana, the Albanian capital, an unthinkable option seven months ago. "We knew that Czechoslovakia is now the country of democracy," he said.
Some of the refugees said many Albanians are aware of the plan to reunify the two Germanys with Soviet consent. That knowledge, they said, may have encouraged 2,000 Albanians to head for the West German Embassy in Tirana when police broke up an anti-government demonstration June 28.
The refugees said Albania could be on the brink of tumultuous but unscripted change. They lamented the lack of any organized political opposition but said simple demographics and the faltering Communist economy may be propelling Albania in the direction taken last year by other formerly Communist nations in Eastern Europe. Albania has the highest birthrate in Europe and the youngest population, with a median age of 26. The refugees here are mostly young men, shoemakers, plumbers, mechanics and laborers.
"It's very difficult to find work -- for intellectuals, also for regular workers without qualifications," Hoxha said. There are few new jobs in the country's flagging industrial sector. More than half the work force is thought to be farm laborers; the average annual income is about $ 200.
Work is especially hard to find if one has fallen afoul of the secret police, the Sigurimi. Hoxha said his prospects came to a halt in the mid-1970s when he was sentenced to seven years in prison. He said his crime was to tell a group of people he considered friends that Albania's late dictator and Communist Party founder, Enver Hoxha, was "worse than Stalin." Musa Hoxha said he was a distant and poor relation of the former leader, who died in 1985.
During the June 28 demonstration, refugees said, young people held up two fingers in a sign of support for freedom and multi-party democracy. But not all of the refugees who fled to foreign embassies that day may have intended to seek permanent asylum.
Luan Likaj, the self-described leader of the group, said he had been out on the street when the demonstration started and police resorted to violence to break it up.
"It was dark. I heard shouts and shots. . . . I saw the police intervene, and so I went to the embassy.
"I didn't have a big desire to go out of the country until that time. I wanted to live and work in my country and be near my parents, wife and children."
The more than 3,000 refugees still crowded into foreign embassies in Tirana will be on their way out of Albania possibly as soon as Thursday. The Italian Foreign Ministry announced today that three ferry boats, two chartered by Italy and one by France, will leave for Albania Thursday and transport the refugees to the Italian port of Brindisi. The refugees from the overcrowded West Germany Embassy will be first to go, the Italians said.
But some of the Albanians may have more trouble finding permanent homes than they had scaling embassy walls. Diplomats are said to be worried that too lenient treatment of this group of refugees could encourage a second wave.
West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher has said West Germany would accept all the Albanians who sought refuge in its embassy. But European Community diplomats have reportedly said they might want to distinguish between those Albanians seeking asylum for political reasons and those who have emigrated seeking better economic opportunity.
The latter group typically finds it harder to gain entry to Western countries. Many of the refugees are thought to be unskilled laborers, and the U.S. State Department has said it would process refugee requests from Albanians through normal bureaucratic channels, often a lengthy procedure. But none of this may discourage others from trying.
"I think there will be many more Albanians who will go out, because people have endured 40 and 50 years of life under the eye of soldiers and police. If it's not possible to leave the official way, then people will try to leave illegally," said Albert Turhani, 31, a plumber who taught himself English and said he wanted to study poetry in the United States.
In Tirana, the Albanian government, seemingly taking no chances, has the embassies under heavy guard.
Here in Prague, meanwhile, halfway between home and places they can only imagine, the Albanians sit on their cots in the rundown Motorlet Company workers' dormitory and dream.
"In Albania, I lacked all the things an American would miss in prison," Turhani said. "America is a place where I can be a human being."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1990 The Washington Post

770 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

December 30, 1989, Saturday, Final Edition

China: Consider the Long Term

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A20

LENGTH: 459 words

The Post's lead editorial on Nov. 25 titled "China's Threat" expressed some fine sentiments but missed the mark regarding how U.S. immigration and refugee policy must operate to be fair and effective.
The Post, the Bush administration and Congress all are correct in the position that no Chinese student in the United States. should be returned to China if there is danger of being persecuted for his or her beliefs or actions. Also, the United States certainly should not give in to threats by the Chinese government. 
Where the Congress and The Post go awry is in the rush to apply blanket action to all. This might be good short-term politics, but it is bad policy. Current immigration and refugee laws allow individual determination of an applicant's ability to come to or stay in the United States. These laws work and should be utilized. The adage ''if it ain't broke, don't fix it'' applies here.
The Bush administration, immediately after Tiananmen Square, properly reacted by indicating there would be special consideration given to any Chinese student who expressed concern about returning. Congress overreacted by making it a blanket policy against return. The Chinese government then itself overreacted.
This unfortunate situation should emphasize that any time we pursue special-interest legislation for any single nationality, we undercut our system. If one national group gets special treatment, others demand the same, and there is no reasonable end.
With the tremendous movement toward democracy in Eastern Europe and even the Soviet Union, we must now realize the solution is not to bring all people from those countries to the United States. Not only are they needed in their homelands to accomplish changes, we cannot take everyone. Similarly in Central America, despite current problems, there has been a move toward democracy and economic development. The solution clearly is not "emptying out" Central America into the United States, as some in Congress would do.
With China also we must look at the long term. While those subject to persecution should not be returned, others should go back as they always planned to do. They need to plant the seeds of democracy and free enterprise they learned in the United States. Future Chinese students should be encouraged to study in this country for the same reasons.
Sticking with our current immigration and refugee laws is the best course. In the future The Post should add its voice to urge Congress to avoid counterproductive, blanket immigration policies toward any nationality.  ALAN C. NELSON Washington
The writer, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1982 to 1989, is a consultant with the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

771 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

December 18, 1989, Monday, Final Edition

Nadia Comaneci in America

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A14; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 637 words

With no debate and a good deal of fanfare, the United States has offered political asylum to Nadia Comaneci, the Gold Medal Olympian who lived a privileged life in Romania but left it all for freedom in America.
What is not illuminated in the coverage of this isolated human-interest story is the thousands of Romanians, Poles, Hungarians and other East Europeans who are consistently denied political refugee status by the United States.
The 5,000 Romanians who applied for refugee status at the American consulate in Romania do not live privileged lives. They suffer the same systematic suppression of freedom and are denied the same basic human rights that led Nadia Comaneci to leave her homeland. But these people will not get the same swift consideration as the perfect-score gymnast, and in all probability they will not be accommodated into the United States. 
For like the 22,000 Poles, 5,000 Hungarians and 2,000 Czechs who applied for refugee status last year, the Romanians are competing for a total of 6,500 refugee slots allocated to the nations of Eastern Europe. This fiscal year 1990 allotment, set by the administration in September, represents a drop from last year's number, even though there were 38,000 refugee applications pending at the end of the year.
Yes, it's great that Nadia Comaneci has escaped the Ceausescu regime. Perhaps her defection will bring a liberalization movement to one of the final Communist strongholds. But let's not confuse this welcome mat for Communist-bloc celebrities with an adequate refugee policy toward Eastern Europe.
We should welcome Nadia Comaneci with open arms. But let us also welcome the doctors, lawyers and academics who long for freedom in America, but are denied by inadequate refugee and immigration policies in the United States.
WILLIAM O. LIPINSKI U.S. Representative (D-Ill.) Washington So Nadia Comaneci is a refugee -- who in the INS bungled this one? By her own admission she lived a life of privilege in Romania. So how does she qualify as a refugee?
There are hundreds of thousands of so-called refugees waiting to come here. How many are just looking for the good life? If I understand the immigration procedure, we provide up to $ 7,500 per person for expenses, and then the refugee is entitled to welfare and all the assistance our underprivileged citizens are supposed to receive. How many billions will we spend on these people who are granted the freedom to travel, religious freedom and all the privileges we have? They don't have all the consumer goods we have? Neither do our poor and our homeless.
Instead of bringing thousands of new people to this country, let us clean up our own act first. Most native Americans are living in abject poverty. Inadequate housing, substandard education and high unemployment are the norm, yet this land belonged to them.
What about our urban homeless and the working poor? Where is the affordable housing for them and for the tax-soaked middle class? How about our rural poor? Within 200 miles of INS headquarters there are thousands of Virginians and Marylanders living in old shacks without water, plumbing or proper heat.
The only solution is to put our immigration and refugee quotas on hold until our own people have a chance to live the American dream. When every American has proper shelter and the necessities of life, then let others come. Our resources, both financial and natural, are limited. When we are $ 3 trillion in debt, we cannot be called the richest nation in the world and should quit trying to act as if we were. We cannot afford to provide shelter and sustenance for others at the expense of our own.
And, oh, yes. Send Nadia Comaneci back where she came from. She is making a mockery of our system. We don't need her here.
PATRICIA A. GEORGE Alexandria

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

776 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

October 6, 1989, Friday, Final Edition

Europe's Migrants Swell Refugee Wave;
Millions Across World Are Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: Don Podesta, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A41

LENGTH: 2102 words

While the thousands of East Germans who have fled to the West have had to leave behind homes, jobs, cars and loved ones to pursue their desperate bid for a new life in the West, they can be considered fortunate among the world's millions of refugees: They are wanted.
They will automatically be received into West German society as citizens and will be aided in finding homes and work. But in refugee camps from Sudan to Hong Kong, a different drama is playing itself out.
This should have been the year some of the world's millions upon millions of displaced people could begin thinking about going home.
Wars in Angola, Afghanistan, Cambodia, Nicaragua and the Persian Gulf either wound down significantly or ended. Vietnamese, Soviet and Cuban troops involved in three of these conflicts were withdrawn. U.S. military support for Nicaraguan rebels came to an end. 
Yet there are more refugees seeking asylum than ever: By some counts there are more than 15 million people languishing in camps from Central America and the Horn of Africa to Pakistan and Thailand -- and now, also in the courtyards of West German embassies in Eastern European capitals, adding up to one of the greatest migrations of people in the world's history.
"We in the refugee field haven't seen the benefits of the end of regional conflicts," said Roger Winter, director of the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a nonprofit organization headquartered in Washington.
One exception is Namibia, where in June the first of more than 41,000 political exiles began returning home as a result of a U.S.-brokered regional peace agreement, the biggest refugee airlift ever conducted by the United Nations.
In the last decade, the world may have become inured to Third World refugees. But this year's wave of European emigres -- 100,000 Soviets, 45,000 East Germans, 300,000 Bulgarian Turks, 230,000 Poles, 20,000 Romanians -- form something that has not been seen since the great European migrations at the end of World War II.
In many ways, the sudden outpouring of East Europeans heading West serves to partly explain why reduced conflict has not led to relief for the world's refugees. If anything, the reduction of East-West tensions, which contributed to many of the regional conflicts, and the accompanying birth of more open political systems in formerly rigid dictatorships such as Poland, Hungary and the Soviet Union, have contributed to the mass movement of people as barriers to emigration have come down.
Where a few years ago the word "refugee" evoked images of an emaciated Ethiopian child seeking relief from drought and famine in a dusty desert camp, today's refugee is as likely to be seeking better economic opportunities or political liberty as fleeing war or natural disaster.
Indochina offers a particularly graphic example of how the nature of refugees and the world's response to them has changed in the past decade.
Since Communist victories in Vietnam and Cambodia in 1975, Southeast Asia has been flooded with refugees -- Cambodians fleeing the horrors of the Khmer Rouge regime and later the Vietnamese invasion, and Vietnamese "boat people."
Soon after the wave began, the countries in the region, in consultation with Western nations, adopted a "first-asylum" policy, under which no refugees fleeing communism would be turned away. The West, for its part, agreed to a massive program to resettle the refugees in other countries. Thailand, as the closest point of escape for most Indochinese refugees, bore the brunt of the first-asylum policy but also benefited from large infusions of U.N. aid and other humanitarian assistance.
About two years ago, things began to change. Western countries had taken most of the refugees they wanted to resettle -- former employees of the U.S. or South Vietnamese government, ethnic Chinese entrepreneurs, skilled professionals fleeing communism -- and they reduced their intake.
At the same time, the nature of the refugees themselves began to change. Now from Vietnam, there are fishermen and farmers who were not necessarily escaping political persecution but looking for a better life economically. An increasing number of boat people are now coming from northern Vietnam.
The Southeast Asian nations coined a term for the new reluctance by the West to continue accepting refugees: "compassion fatigue."
Faced with this change of attitude by the West, Southeast Asian nations have decided that their policy of granting first asylum has become untenable. The refugees kept coming, with a new wave beginning in 1987, but fewer and fewer were being resettled elsewhere. In the spring of 1987, Thailand became the first country to challenge the first-asylum agreement by adopting a policy to push boats laden with refugees back out to sea. Indonesia followed suit, and there are reports that Malaysia is quietly doing the same.
One result of Thailand's rolling up the welcome mat has been a marked shift in the patterns of refugee movements, with increasing numbers of boat people arriving in the British crown colony of Hong Kong and in Japan.
Britain and Vietnam have held talks on the issue of sending refugees back to Vietnam. Hanoi has refused to take back any refugee who does not volunteer to return, a position that the U.S. government has supported.
British and Thai officials have accused the United States of hypocrisy, pointing to U.S. interdiction of Haitian boat people and deportation of illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America.
"We couldn't take the moral high ground because our own skirts were dirty," said Winter, of the U.S. Committee for Refugees.
Among Japanese, unaccustomed to immigration, the surge in refugees has stirred fears that the country will be overrun. It has caused the government for the first time to adopt a screening process under which refugees with only economic motives will be repatriated.
And it has caused conflict between Vietnamese-speaking boat people and young Chinese laborers who have boarded Vietnamese boats in hopes of finding work in prosperous Japan. The two groups have clashed in overcrowded refugee centers, and Japanese officials have segregated them.
According to officials in the Japanese Foreign Ministry and the prime minister's office, 34 boatloads carrying 3,181 people reached Japan as of the end of September. Only 219 boat people came in all of 1988.
For the Vietnamese, the trip is an arduous, 2,000-mile journey risking pirates and storms on the open sea. About 80 percent of the arrivals have come to Japan on their own, with the others picked up by ships on the way.
Japan, which has accepted fewer than 7,000 Indochinese refugees since the end of the Vietnam war, has said that it will allow the total to rise to 10,000, providing the new immigrants are genuine refugees under U.N. definitions. But its processing centers, intended to offer six months of instruction in Japanese language, are suddenly woefully understaffed and crowded.
Japan is not alone in its reluctance to admit refugees from alien ethnic groups.
In the United States, "East Europeans and Soviets are on the front burner now and there is a great deal of interest in accepting them," Winter said. "But who cares about Somalis who have gone to Ethiopia?"
West Germany greets all immigrant ethnic Germans -- whether East Germans or people of German ancestry from Poland or the Soviet Union -- with up to $ 125 each in "welcome money" and low-cost loans of up to $ 5,000 per family to get started. All are eligible for normal unemployment or welfare and state-supported health insurance benefits.
If they are retired, they receive the same pension as if they had worked in West Germany all their lives; thus a Polish ethnic German who retired after working 35 years as a machinist in Poland receives the same pension as if he had worked all those years at the same job in West Germany.
But non-German asylum-seekers -- mostly Poles, Yugoslavs, Turks and Iranians -- don't enjoy those benefits. Many of them must work in black market jobs while waiting -- typically for several years -- for a decision on whether they are to be granted political asylum. Only about 9 percent ever receive asylum; the rest are classified as people merely trying to improve their economic status and technically are supposed to be expelled from the country, although in practice this does not happen often.
When international laws covering refugees were written in 1951, most of those heading for Western Europe or America were Europeans. But with modern transportation and regional wars in many parts of the Third World, refugees are traveling to the West from farther away and most of them are not white. This, in Winter's view, helps account for the West's increasing reluctance to continue accepting refugees.
"You start to get a decreasing receptivity to refugees," Winter said. "Governments are backing away from the system they created."
As a result, contributions to organizations that care for refugees, such as the International Red Cross and the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), are down, in relative terms, just when the need is greater than ever.
The U.N. deputy high commissioner for refugees, Eugene Dewey, said budgetary pressures have forced the agency to cut back on all but "survival items" for refugees. The number of exiles cared for by the agency has risen 40 percent over the past three years with victims up 700,000 in the last year alone.
But contributions are up only 17 percent since 1986, Dewey said, adding that UNHCR may face a $ 40 million deficit by the end of the year.
"We've had to retrench. We've had to cut out almost everything except survival items, care and maintenance," Dewey said. "This is tragic because it has cost us our investment programs in education and training, which have some chance of getting refugees out of this dependency syndrome."
But despite the increase in migration for economic reasons, the bulk of the world's refugees are fleeing their native lands not to search for better jobs or more money or even political freedom. Most of the 4 million refugees in Africa, the 5 million Afghans encamped in Pakistan and Iran and the hundreds of thousands of displaced Central Americans have fled for a much simpler reason: to stay alive.
Often, that is all they achieve; conditions in many camps around the world are hellish.
Camps in Malawi, South Africa and Zambia for 1 million Mozambicans fleeing the 14-year-old civil war in their country offer nightmarish scenes: children with bloated bellies and pencil-thin arms crawling through the dust in search of shade or beetles to eat, and adults wearing bark peeled from trees, clamoring around a relief plane's whirring propellers for sacks of grain tossed out the door.
Afghan refugees, who represent fully a third of their country's population, also are a third of the world's refugees. Many of them have been in camps in Pakistan and Iran for all of the 1980s.
Sanitary conditions in the camps are poor even by South Asian standards; diseases associated with malnutrition are chronic, and morale is generally low. More than 75 percent of the refugees are women and children, most of whom have not been home since leaving Afghanistan. A third of the children have been born and raised in the camps, according to the United Nations.
"The situation of the women has been particularly difficult due to the fact that Afghan culture and traditions strictly discourage contact between women and outsiders," a recent U.N. report said. "Most women have been confined . . . in their shelters with very little social contact. In many cases this has resulted in psychological depression and despair."
But the irony is that 10 years of war and international administration of the camps has led to another kind of distortion of the Afghan experience: Refugees now receive more and better services in the squalid Pakistani camps -- health, education, and food -- than they would in most areas of Afghanistan, where the war-torn countryside is generally devoid of civil administration.
Aid officials worry that they are a long way from being able to promise the refugees a better life if and when they go home.
And for many of the world's refugees, there is no guarantee that they will ever go home. Palestinian refugees now number nearly 2 million in Lebanon, Jordan and the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank, and many of these have been in camps for more than 40 years with no end to their displacement in sight.
Washington Post correspondents abroad contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, A WORLD OF REFUGEES: THE SCOPE OF THE PROBLEM, BRAD WYE

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

778 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 13, 1989, Wednesday, Final Edition

More Refugees, More Refugee Slots

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 426 words

THE BUSH administration proposes to open the door wider to refugees of all sorts, including those in the category of special current interest, Soviet emigrants -- mostly Jews -- who are lining up to leave in numbers not seen since the war. Some in Congress think the administration is still not opening the door wide enough. With refugees from many places knocking and with a tight budget, what is the right way to go? 
The administration proposes next year to admit 125,000 refugees worldwide, a slight increase reflecting -- but inadequately -- the pressures pulsing in places as far-flung as China, Indochina, Central America and Eastern Europe. The administration would let in 50,000 Soviets. Though this figure is up from the current ceiling of 43,500, it has been interpreted in some quarters as a new barrier, because demand is rising and because meanwhile the United States is moving to grant American visas only in Moscow, ending the makeshift practice of Jews leaving Moscow on Israeli visas and halting in Europe to change course.
Conceivably 50,000-plus additional Soviets could come to America under the regular immigration law and under the attorney general's "parole" authority. The possible total of 100,000 is in the range of estimates of Soviet emigration flows, but the figure is deceptive. It's not just that many would-be immigrants prefer to come as refugees, who (most of them) have passage and resettlement paid by the U. S. government and who (all of them) get on the track to citizenship. Parolees' expenses must be picked up privately, and arrivals become permanent residents with no chance for citizenship -- both major inhibiting factors.
It makes us ask whatever happened to the idea that was kicking around for a new special humanitarian immigration category to take care of worthy people who might not make it under the current immigration law, who in a day of Kremlin relaxation have trouble demonstrating the "well-founded fear of persecution" required to qualify as a refugee and who find parole status burdensome. The idea needs dusting off.
Such a change would, of course, cost money. Money colors the whole refugee/immigrant debate. For instance, the administration proposes to fund only two of every three refugee slots. At the least, Congress should make sure that no refugees are left marooned by this provision. It should also ponder how it is that the United States, a rich nation, declines to spend in this area of policy as in others what is required to serve necessary and agreed national purposes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

779 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 12, 1989, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Eyes 50,000 Limit On Soviet Emigres in '90;
Up to 150,000 Are Expected to Seek Entry

BYLINE: John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 668 words

The Bush administration plans to propose to Congress that the United States accept 50,000 refugees from the Soviet Union during the coming year -- far fewer than the 100,000 to 150,000 Soviet Jews, evangelical Christians and other Soviet citizens expected to seek admission to this country in 1990.
The 50,000 slots proposed for Soviet emigres, most of them Jews, would make them the biggest single subgroup of the 125,000 refugees that the administration will recommend admitting during fiscal 1990, which begins Oct. 1. Still, it would mean that the United States, after waging a two-decade struggle to induce Moscow to ease its restrictions on emigration, will be in the embarrassing position of turning away thousands who had hoped to resettle here.
The figures are contained in a confidential memorandum prepared by Jewel S. LaFontant, the State Department's coordinator for refugee affairs. Informed sources said yesterday it has been approved tentatively by the White House and will be proposed to Congress by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh and other U.S. officials in testimony this week. 
In addition to the Soviet quota, LaFontant's memo proposes fiscal 1990 refugee allotments of 3,000 for Africa, 25,000 for "first entry" refugees from East Asia, 26,500 spaces primarily for Amerasians and their families, 6,500 for Eastern Europe exclusive of the Soviet Union, 3,500 for Latin America and the Caribbean, 6,500 for the Middle East and South Asia, and 4,000 for others coming under various private-sector programs.
Refugee status quotas are fixed by the administration in consultation with Congress. The federal government pays refugees' transportation and resettlement costs, and the rising numbers of people seeking such status from troubled areas of the world have put a greater strain on the budgetary resources than the austerity-minded administration is willing to commit.
The 50,000 figure for Soviet immigrants to the United States would apply only to those receiving expenses-paid refugee status. Those denied that status could apply for admission under the attorney general's parole authority, with a reasonable expectation of success. But they would not get U.S. government financial help. Much of the problem stems from President Mikhail Gorbachev's easing of Soviet immigration policies after departures had been sharply curtailed for several years.
An estimated 2 million Jews live in the Soviet Union, and about 50,000 are expected to relocate in the United States this year. State Department officials have told Congress that they expect up to 150,000 refugee applicants next year.
That has led to an informal consensus between the administration and influential groups in the American Jewish community that the number is too large for the United States to absorb. There is an expectation that most of those denied entry will be redirected to Israel, but considerable disagreement still exists about how many should be admitted to this country.
Since September 1988, the Justice Department has tightened its standards for granting them refugee status, turning down what U.S. Jewish groups estimate is about 20 percent of the applicants. Processing backlogs have also left about 14,000 Jews stranded in Italy and thousands more backed up in the Soviet Union waiting for their applications to be considered.
That has led to drives in Congress for legislation to establish a presumption that Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians are subject to persecution in their homeland and thus make it easier for them to get refugee status.
Rep. Bruce A. Morrison (D-Conn.), sponsor of the legislation in the House, said last night the 50,000-space quota for the Soviet Union is "reasonable." But he added that those already in the pipeline because they had been led to expect they would gain admittance to this country should be judged on a presumptive basis, and he warned that the administration is likely to face a major fight with Congress if it does not go along.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

780 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 8, 1989, Friday, Final Edition

Revisiting the Refugee Law

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 520 words

IT HAS BEEN only a decade since the United States wrote a new refugee law, but the continuing pileups of desperate people in camps and in exile around the world and the particularly embarrassing pileup of Soviet Jews in Rome -- people whose freedom Americans loudly demanded for years -- indicate it is time to consider changes.
To qualify as a refugee to the United States now, each individual must show ''a well-founded fear of persecution.'' It is a showing increasingly difficult to make as Mikhail Gorbachev widens opportunities for religious and cultural practice and emigration, and it is on this basis that numbers of applicants are now being turned down by this country. But the more open emergence of traditional popular biases against Jews also marks the evolving Soviet scene. 
This has given rise to the notion of setting a refugee entry standard of group cultural victimization. That could give relief to Soviet Jews, but applied universally it would also open the door to scores of aggrieved ethnic groups around the world. Applied particularly, it would revive a standard of ethnic favoritism that, in emigration matters, Americans banished years ago. It needs good hard debate.
This year, there were 43,500 refugee slots available (out of 116,500 worldwide) for Soviets, mostly Jews, but including Pentecostals and Armenians. For next year, the numbers are currently being set in the annual executive-congressional consultations, but the slots are not likely to take care of the growing numbers of people. One way to reduce the unhappy but unavoidable competition of Soviet Jews with refugees from Eastern Europe, China, Southeast Asia and Latin America is to increase the number of slots. This ought to be done. The other groups are no less desperate than Soviet Jews, and lack their unique option to go to a free democratic country that is pleading for them -- Israel.
To the refugee slots can be added the regular immigration places -- as many as 20,000 -- available to Soviet citizens.
And to these can be added the additional slots the attorney general grants under his ''parole'' authority. This covers the 14,000 Soviet Jews who, having been denied refugee status, currently languish in Europe, their expenses paid by the United States. Parole also offers a place in America, on a continuing basis, to 2,000 Soviets a month who are still in their country and do not qualify as refugees. As it happens, few of these parole places are being used, principally because, unlike refugee slots, they do not provide U.S. government funds for transport and resettlement costs (about $ 7,000 per person). The American Jewish community has sought to fill the gap and has come up short.
The numbers of Soviet Jews who can come to the United States are not insubstantial. But this does not discharge the full American obligation to a group whose departure from the Soviet Union this country has put near the center of its foreign policy for 20 years. More refugee slots are needed, for Soviet Jews and others. More funds are needed. A more flexible definition of ''refugee'' must be explored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

Copyright 1989 The Washington Post

789 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 23, 1988, Saturday, Final Edition

Canada Tightens Laws on Refugee Claims

BYLINE: Herbert H. Denton, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 22, 1988

Tough immigration bills designed to give the Canadian government more power to deny entry to bogus refugee claimants were approved yesterday after an 11-month-long, acrimonious battle in parliament.
Two new laws give the government authority to turn back ships carrying illegal aliens and raise the penalties against persons helping illegal immigrants enter Canada to fines of up to $ 10,000 and jail terms of up to 10 years.
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney had called the House of Commons into an emergency session last August to pass the bills, but objections raised by church groups and refugee aid organizations delayed approval. 
Mulroney acted after a public outcry about abuse of Canada's immigration system that followed the landing of 174 Sikhs off the coast of Nova Scotia. There had been an uproar the previous summer after a boatload of Tamils fleeing refugee camps in West Germany and elsewhere in Europe, where aliens are often prohibited from working, had arrived in Canada off the coast of Newfoundland.
The new laws require that refugees seek asylum to escape political persecution rather than to seek economic gain.
Under old Canadian laws, authorities were forced to give the benefit of the doubt and allow entry to any alien who sought asylum, no matter how flimsy the claim.
Often it would take years to hold a hearing on the claim. By then, many with unfounded refugee claims had married Canadian citizens or taken other steps to legalize their status. There is currently a backlog of about 50,000 such cases.
Illegal aliens flocked to Canada from Asia, South America, southern Europe and Africa. Authorities said there even was a handful of Americans who claimed political persecution in the United States.
In the new system, authorities will be able to send refugees back to "safe" countries while their claims are being considered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1988 The Washington Post

792 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

January 19, 1988, Tuesday, Final Edition

Sen. Inouye's School (Cont'd.)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A14; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 346 words

Irene Novak's letter ["Sen. Inouye's School in France," Jan. 7] is yet another example of the ignorance of the U.S. taxpayer as to who is a refugee and who is funding the refugees in the Arab-Israeli conflict.
For the past 40 years, we have heard only about the Arab refugees. Little is known of the 856,000 Jews who lived in Arab countries before 1948, indeed, long before the dawn of Islam. Of these, 830,000 were forced to leave their countries of birth and find refuge in Israel, Europe and the Americas. These Jews left behind incalculable assets in property and cultural and religious patrimony accumulated from more than 2,000 years of living in these countries. 
Most of these Jews arrived destitute to their new homes. Unlike their Arab counterpart, Jews did not benefit from funds of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency. Yet these Jews are the other side of the coin of the Middle East refugee problem. Between 1949 and 1974, the United States and Israel contributed $ 582,339,802 to UNRWA's budget, which was allocated to provide relief assistance for all refugees of the Near East. This should have included Jews from Arab countries as well. Instead, more than $ 1 billion to date has gone to the rehabilitation of Palestinian refugees alone, who were refused resettlement by their Arab brethren in the vast land of the Arab nation extending from the Persian Gulf to the Atlantic Ocean.
Therefore, Irene Novak and others should not feel distraught by the allocation of a meager $ 8 million for children of Jewish refugees from North Africa, which has been allocated for learning and not for political or military ends.
Perhaps the time has arrived for Congress, the White House and the American public to recognize the other refugee problem that has been neglected over the past 40 years. In acknowledging their plight as well, we will discover the missing part of the solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.
MAURICE M. ROUMANI
College Park
The writer is a professor of political science and Middle Eastern studies at the University of Maryland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

Copyright 1988 The Washington Post

798 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 12, 1987, Wednesday, Final Edition

Mulroney Seeks to Curb Refugees Entering Canada;
Parliament Called to Emergency Session

BYLINE: Herbert H. Denton, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 11, 1987

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney reconvened Parliament in an emergency session today to seek sweeping new powers to deal with the influx of refugees into Canada.
Veteran observers in Ottawa said they expected that the House of Commons would approve the government measures by next week. The proposed legislation would sharply raise penalties for ship captains and others who smuggle aliens into Canada and would make it easier for officials to turn away immigrants suspected of being security risks. 
Mulroney's decision to interrupt the lawmakers' long summer vacation followed a public outcry against existing liberal immigration policies after a boatload of 174 Indian Sikhs from refugee encampments in Western Europe arrived on the shores of Nova Scotia last month.
An administrative law judge -- called an "adjudicator" here -- yesterday ordered the last six of those Sikhs released from detention at a Halifax military base. The adjudicator denied the Mulroney government's request that five of the men be kept in custody because they were regarded as dangerous.
In Calgary yesterday, another adjudicator allowed six Iranians who arrived in that western Canadian city on Saturday without visas or passports to remain in Canada for at least a month to make their claims for refugee status.
Both groups are among the more than 30,000 persons expected to arrive here this year, without prior authorization, to claim refugee status.
As the United States and governments of Western Europe have cracked down on illegal immigration in recent years, Canada has become something of a haven for migrants and a target for smugglers around the world drawn to the big profits to be made.
Canadian authorities swiftly jailed the 37-year-old Swedish captain who masterminded the scheme to bring the Sikhs to eastern Canada, sentencing him to the maximum one year in jail.
The new powers sought by Mulroney would raise maximum penalties to 10 years in prison and the equivalent of a $ 375,000 fine. It also would permit the government to detain people until their identity can be established and deport those whose refugee claims are clearly unfounded.
Many immigrants who have arrived recently in Canada dispose of their travel documents before touching Canadian soil. Among bogus refugee claims in the past were those of scores of Portuguese who falsely claimed they were Jehovah's Witnesses and falsely alleged the sect was being persecuted in Portugal.
Church groups, immigration lawyers and opposition critics all acknowledge that there have been abuses, but they contend the government's bill casts too wide a net and that refugees with legitimate claims might also be turned away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, BRIAN MULRONEY

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

Copyright 1987 The Washington Post

814 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 21, 1986, Sunday, Final Edition

Refugees at America's Borders: Who Gets In?

BYLINE: Peter H. Schuck

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; PAGE X4

LENGTH: 963 words

CALCULATED KINDNESS Refugees and America's Half-Open Door, 1945 to the Present By Gil Loescher and John A. Scanlan Free Press. 346 pp. $ 22.50
IN THIS, Miss Liberty's centennial year, the subject of refugees is very much on the nation's mind. We are awash in sentiments of the most stirring, ennobling and (not coincidentally) reassuring kind; it is the stuff of statuary, song and story. Depending upon your favorite metaphor, America is celebrated as a beacon of freedom, a sanctuary for the oppressed or (as Washington put it) a bosom for the persecuted. We have welcomed more refugees than the rest of the world combined. 
Only the churlish, it seems, would dispute these claims, and Gil Loescher and John A. Scanlan do not mean to be churlish. They simply want to tell the unvarnished truth about post-war refugee policy. Their story is a complicated one but their essential message, nicely captured in the book's title, amounts to this: America has indeed been kind to refugees, but that kindness has been highly selective, often grudging, and almost always has served her foreign policy goals.
Their survey begins with the displaced persons legislation, which the Truman administration coaxed out of a conservative Congress by appealing to economic and ideological motives. It concludes with the Reagan administration's opposition to asylum for Central Americans. In between, the authors describe large-scale human movements generated by wars, economic calamities, social upheavals, religious persecutions, genocidal lunacies, political struggles and benign hopes. They resurrect dimly-remembered governmental decisions of the last four decades, testing them against our "rhetoric of welcome."
We are reminded of America's tragic instigation of revolution in eastern Europe during the 1950s, when Russian tanks demolished naive hopes and created a tide of Hungarian and Polish refugees. We experience anew the nightmarish evacuation from Saigon, the searing image of desperate Vietnamese clutching at American helicopters rising above the embassy compound. We relive the cruelties of the Duvalier regime, the sufferings of the boat people adrift in the south China Sea, the episodic negotiations with Castro, the turmoil in Chile and the plight of Soviet Jews. In each case, America has sought to reconcile national self-interest and humanitarianism in a world disordered by ruthless politics, militant idealism, and sheer madness. By chronicling how we react to the endemic holocausts of our age, Loescher and Scanlan recall us to our moral responsibilities.
BUT PRECISELY what are those reponsibilities? Even the most obvious answer to this question -- that we should at least comply with our international covenants, such as the Refugees Convention barring return of people to countries where they have "a well-founded fear of persecution" -- turns out to be too facile. Defining persecution is no easy thing, as courts grappling with the issue have learned. Does it apply to the Salvadoran peasant caught in the crossfire of a civil war? To the Pole who lives under a harsh Communist to page 5 regime but has managed to hide his dissidence from the authorities? To Khmer Rouge soldiers who defended the fiendish Pol Pot before he was overthrown by Hanoi's equally brutal quislings? And in the vast domain in which international law is utterly silent and international practices diverge, the questions become much, much harder.
The authors do not really ask or help us answer such questions. Indeed, the most disappointing aspect of this otherwise excellent book is their readiness to impugn the moral legitimacy of American refugee policy without analyzing their own moral premises or offering any alternative conception of our responsibilities. When they move beyond description, it is only to denounce "cold-war" ideology and the "double standard" that favors refugees from Communist regimes. The proper roles of ideology and of equal treatment in refugee policy are indeed critical issues, but they are more complex than the authors acknowledge.
Although refugees, literally people without a country, have compelling claims to international protection, we cannot accept more than a fraction of the 10 million to 15 million of them in the world today. America's foreign policy is a necessary adjunct of her national character; it defines allies and enemies, marries principles to expediency and mixes discretion and constraint. (Whether that policy is misguided or not is another matter.) So long as we observe our international obligations, can accept only a small number of deserving applicants, and admit as refugees only those genuinely fleeing persecution, why should our foreign policy goals be irrelevant to our choice? Why can't we morally prefer the refugees American has predominantly favored -- those who have cast their lot with her, whose societies she has vowed to protect, who share many of her values and her enemies? Humanitarianism, in this view, does not require a blindfold; it demands only that those chosen be at least as deserving as those who must be turned away.
Even from this perspective, which the authors do not even consider, American refugee policy is vulnerable to criticism. Our solicitude for Cubans and rejection of Haitians is unjustifiable. Our government has flagrantly violated many asylum-seekers' legal rights. We could admit more refugees than we do. Temporary safe havens could be more widely available. While the world's turbulence continues, however, calculated kindness to refugees will remain a moral imperative, not an evasion.
Peter H. Schuck, who teaches law at Yale, is the author of "Citizenship Without Consent" and of "Agent Orange on Trial," which is scheduled to be published this fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Vietnamese refugees on Anambas Island, Indonesia in 1979, waiting for immigration opportunities to the United States and elsewhere. (Vietnamese refugees on Anambas Island), Paul Zach

TYPE: REVIEW

Copyright 1986 The Washington Post

815 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

July 4, 1986, Friday, Final Edition

The New Americans

SECTION: Editorial; A14

LENGTH: 351 words

THE COUNTRY celebrates its heritage today as a nation of immigrants. There is a sturdy pride in the achievements of those who crossed oceans and overcame barriers to reach America. This self-congratulation is deserved, for in fact no nation has been as welcoming as this one. Last year more than half a million new legal immigrants entered the United States, and in the past decade millions of refugees have been accepted and have been helped to start anew. Most individual Americans take pride, too, in the accomplishments of their own ancestors, almost all of whom came from poverty and persecution and built new lives. 
But immigration did not end in 1910, or 1945, or even 1981. It continues, it changes, and it remains controversial. In the enthusiasm of this weekend it is necessary to remember that Americans have always greeted immigrants with mixed emotions. Each wave of newcomers has had doubts about the next. It is not surprising that, according to a recent New York Times poll, more people believe that immigrants cause problems for American society than believe they make contributions to it. Just as those from western Europe had doubts about later arrivals from southern and eastern Europe, so today there is some hesitation about new immigrants from Asia and Latin America.
Can this country continue to take more immigrants? Of course, and the new arrivals will continue to achieve, even to excel as did the newcomers of 80 years ago. It takes more than a little touch of hypocrisy for an American to celebrate the arrival of his own ancestors on the Fourth of July while deploring the current influx. Everyone is entitled to get misty-eyed this weekend thinking of what that first sight of the Statue of Liberty may have meant to his own forebears. But the day is given special meaning by offering respect to those who come today from refugee camps in East Asia, the turmoil of Central America and elsewhere. It is important, too, to forge a new resolve to cut through the continuing squabbles over immigration reform. Congress, upon its return, should pass a sensible bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1986 The Washington Post

817 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 8, 1985, Sunday, Final Edition

Looking for a Home: European Refugees on the Move;
THE UNWANTED; Refugees and the International Order in Europe.  By Michael Marrus. Oxford University Press. 420 pp. $25.

BYLINE: By Walter Laqueuer; Walter Laqueur, chairman of the research council of the Center for Strategic and International Studies of Georgetown University, is the author of "The Terrible Secret: Suppression of the Truth About Hitler's Final Solution."

SECTION: Book World; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1012 words

SUCCESSIVE WAVES of refugees were for a century a mirror of European history and for an even longer time of the history of America. Since time immemorial people have moved from one country to another for a variety of reasons; early on the Bible tells a story of one such migration. But, as Michael Marrus points out in his valuable new book, refugees as a category did not impinge on European consciousness and they hardly ever troubled relations between states. The term had initially a very specific meaning -- it referred to the Protestants expelled from France in the late 17th century. Only later it was extended to all those who had to leave their native country in times of distress. 
Throughout the 19th century there were several waves of such emigration, mostly political in character such as the Germans leaving their country after the failed revolution of 1848 or the Poles escaping Russian occupation. Jews in their masses also left Eastern Europe because they were persecuted and starved; there was a similar emigration wave from the Balkans. The Southeastern European refugees are seldom remembered now but they had a social and political impact which lasts to this day: If Andreas Papandreou is in power in Athens this is not unconnected with the fact that after World War I, 1.2 million Greeks had to leave Turkey. Their absorption in mainland Greece was difficult and protracted and contributed significantly to the radicalization of Greek politics.
On the whole, the attitude of 19th-century Europe was far more tolerant than in a later age: True, a newspaper like The Times of London would deride the continental revolutionaries recently arrived as "wearing hats such as no one ever wore and hair where none should be." But despite outlandish hats and beards, no one was ever denied entry into Britain at the time, and there was no need for passports and visas either. One of the main reasons was that there were not that many refugees, but above all the refugees were not considered a political or economic threat.
All this changed radically after World War I: More than a million Russians left their country after the Revolution and there was another mass exodus following the disintegration of the Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian empires. The situation of minorities in the successor states and Nazi persecution of Jews were further cause of the increasing stream of ,emigr,es for which no refuge could be found. The refugees found most doors closed: The Great Depression had caused mass unemployment and there was the fear that a further influx would cause a disaster. And so it came to pass that countries once well known for offering asylum declared that the "life boat was full" -- in the memorable words of a Swiss minister of the interior in 1942. True, France received 250,000 Spanish Republicans after the defeat of the Republic in 1939 -- on condition that most of them would move on. Britain accepted in the last months before the war some 50,000 German and Austrian Jews. But the great majority of those who had wanted to emigrate could not do so, and as a result many perished.
IT IS ONLY fair to add that America, the richest country of all, which had been built by refugees, behaved as badly or even worse. One of the few rays of hope in the interwar period was the establishment by the League of Nations of a High Commission for Refugees. The first incumbent was Frithjof Nansen, the famous polar explorer; while the institution did a great deal of good in the years after World War I, its resources were altogether insufficient to cope with the much greater problems of the 1930s. Conferences such as Evian, which were to help to find at least partial solutions, were mere charades: gradually it was accepted that being one's brother's keeper was an outmoded and impractical concept.
The fate of the refugees after World War II is still vividly remembered: At one time or another some 80 million had been on the move, and as the war ended there were massive "population exchanges" (often a euphemism for something far more unpleasant). Many went on to America and other countries overseas, millions stayed in Europe. So great was the resilience and absorptive capacity of the old continent that by the late 1950s work and shelter had been found for most of them. The attention of the various refugee agencies began to shift to the third world countries, most recently to Ethiopia.
Nevertheless, Marrus is perhaps a little overly optimistic in claiming that Europe's refugee problem has been solved: This is certainly not true with regard to the absorption of Algerians in France and there have been growing problems with new immigrants in Britain and the "guest workers" (above all Turks) in West Germany. Were these people refugees? Most did not leave their countries because they were persecuted for political or other reasons but because they wanted a better life. This is now a major political issue facing European governments. The West German constitution -- alone in Europe -- makes the granting of political asylum to foreigners mandatory. But there is no denying that there has been massive abuse of this provision and it is also true that the staunchest internationalist will flinch once there is the danger that he and his kin will be outnumbered by new arrivals from far away places. This, of course, is true all the world over and Marrus is less than fair when he decries the "deeply conservative impulses" governing contemporary European politics and the prevailing restrictions.
In this respect there is not the slightest difference between conservatives and liberals, socialists and communists in Europe. Inspired by rock music they may give generous donations to refugees but they don't want them in their home. Fortunately, the character of the problem in Europe today is quite different from the crisis of the '30s and '40s when it was literally a question of life or death. Marrus has written a fine book on a difficult subject which will preoccupy governments and nations for many years to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, Refugees boarding a ship at Bremen, Germany in 1950. Wide World Photo

Copyright 1985 The Washington Post

824 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

September 29, 1979, Saturday, Final Edition

E.T. Brennan, Counselor On Refugees in Geneva

SECTION: Metro; C4

LENGTH: 310 words

Edward Thomas Brennan, 58, a Foreign Service officer and a former counselor for refugee and migration affairs for the U.S. Mission to the United Nations in Switzerland, died Tuesday at the National Institute of Health clinical center.  He had leukemia.
Mr. Brennan joined the Foreign Service in 1941.  He was in charge of diplomatic courier operations for Latin America, the South Pacific and Northern Europe, and later was assigned to France, Germany, the Phillippines, Tunisia and the Central African Republic, where he was deputy chief of mission. 
Before being named counselor for refugee and migration affairs in 1975, he served as a consul general in Salonika, Greece, for about five years.  He had been on sick leave since January.
During his career, he also was an adviser on international affairs to the Department of the Navy, a delegate to the 1970 UNESCO conference in Paris, and an official of the U.N. High Commission for Refugees.
Mr. Brennan was born in Toorak, Australia, and came to this area with his family at an early age.  He earned a bachelor's degree in foreign service from Georgetown University.
He served as a Navy aviator from 1942 to 1947 and as a Navy Reserve aviator during the Korean conflict.
He received two Superior Service awards from the State Department and an Exceptional Civilian Service commendation from the Air Force.
He was a member of the American Foreign Service Association, the Naval Institute and the Army & Navy Club in Washington.
Survivors include his wife, Denise M., and two sons, Edward T. Jr. and Peter M., and a daughter, Nizette, all of the home in Bethesda; another son, Kevin C., with the U.S. Embassy in Prague, and two grandchildren.
The family suggests that expressions of sympathy be in the form of contributions to the American Cancer Society's leukemia research fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, EDWARD T. BRENNAN

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

825 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

August 10, 1979, Friday, Final Edition


Blue Jeans and Boat People, VOA and the Golden Door

BYLINE: By Henry Mitchell

SECTION: Style; Any Day; D1

LENGTH: 1822 words

The Voice of America is not especially grim but then it's not a playpen, either, and people there take responsibility seriously, their heads full of the 100 million people who listen (in the course of a week) to their broadcasts in Europe, Asia, Africa, South America and other outlandish places.
It unnerved them a little, at first, to discover the current director, R. Peter Straus, "wandering about the halls at 2 in the morning in blue jeans and sneakers" as one highly placed VOA source put it.
Straus really is a New Yorker but got a house in Southwest Washington, five blocks from the office.
He didn't have a car, but a motorcycle, when he arrived two years ago.  As a notable muckety-muck, he had a grand reserved parking place and naturally stabled the old Honda in it. 
"Mr. Straus," said a security official late one night, "I am sure you do not have a motorcycle but there's one in your parking place and -"
"I have a motorcycle," Straus said.
"Oh, God, I was afraid of that.  Well, it's down there with a ticket on it."
Straus' wife commutes from New York on weekends only, and that is the reason he can be found all kinds of hours in the office, and that is why he is so trim:
"I'm a physical exercise nut," he said, "but not handball, no.  Tennis, jogging, and I have a not of time for it with my wife (Ellen Louise Sulzberger, married in 1950) out of town so much."
I mentioned that lately we keep seeing hints in the columns of pundits that the Voice of America keeps raising the hopes of refugees in Indochina, and asked what the hell is going on?
"Nine times out of 10," he said, settling back with the air of a man who knows it's going to take a few minutes, "the job here is challenging and joyful.  Eight times out of 10 it's enjoyable."
I said nothing of the reduced percentage, not being one to nit-pick, and he went on:
"But sometimes the Voice of America is in the middle and it's not enjoyable.  Take just two examples, the Russian dissidents and the Indochina refugees, including the boat people.
"We have the obligation to broadcast the news and broadcast it straight.  We do this 853 hours a week and we are proud of our credibility around the world.
"But when we broadcast news items about, say, Solzhenitsyn's Harvard speech, which was by no means flattering to the United States, we know it may have effects.  The Soviet dissidents keep saying it is urgently important to keep hammering at the plight of dissidents.  But what about some guy in Kiev, say, who is not a celebrity, not a man of worldwide reputation, who is only a moderate nuisance to his government.
"I keep thinking, maybe he would be let alone as long as nothing much was said about dissidents, but maybe his government would crack down on him, hard, if dissidents are discussed too much in world news.
"Or take the boat people fleeing from Vietnam.  Again, we broadcast the news, straight.  You've been through the file and read what we've said.  But when we report that Malaysia and Indonesia are closing their borders to refugees, and that Hong Kong and Thailand are taking pressure from thousands of refugees, of course a man thinking of becoming a refugee will figure it out that it's better for him to go to Thailand than to Indonesia, and in that sense it could be said the Voice of America directs him where to go."
Or if the Voice carries a pledge from the White House that the refugee problem has top priority with Carter, and another news dispatch mentions the location of the Seventh Fleet, it doesn't take much analysis for the potential refugee to head for the fleet instead of some other direction.
Straus says the wording of refugee news is often agonized over, to make certain it does not give any refugee the impression he will be safe if he just heads for an American ship.
There have been two commentaries (editorials) on the refugee problem, prepared on May 25 and June 15, both of them criticizing Hanoi for expelling the ethnic Chinese and urging a more humane handling of the exodus.
But it's true that in villages in Vietnam or Cambodia, isolated peasants may indeed first learn from news items via the Voice that thousands are finding temporary refuge in Thailand, and are learning their plight is of major concern to the American government, and this may in fact embolden some to try leaving who would otherwise have thought their case was hopeless.
It is not the same thing, however, as if the Voice had tried to further American distaste for Hanoi at the cost of inciting hundreds of thousands to flee, many of them to their deaths.
It has had little attention, but one of the great developments at the Voice of America is the clear separation of news from propaganda.
"Our credibility is rising," said Straus, "and we'd like to think it's because we are fine fellows doing a fine job, but I don't think that has anything to do with it.
"The way the people who hear the Voice of America perceive the United States has changed.  They now see the United States as the great power, where formerly they saw Great Britain.  They are more likely now to take the Voice of America to heart than the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation).
"But before I came to this job, the Voice had handled the Watergate scandal with such objectivity that I think it impressed the world audience.  They thought if the Voice could report that news, so damaging and embarrassing to the American government, then probably it could be trusted to report other news without bias too.
"The traditional way to handle policy interests (propaganda) in all international broadcasting companies, has been to do it through the news that's reported.  And the news that's not reported.  But -"
"Just here," I broke in, "take the case of Andy Young sounding off about American jails being full of political prisoners.  That was certainly news.  I suppose Voice of America reported it at the time?"
"In 38 languages," said Straus.
"What seemed to make more sense than leaving out damaging news or trying to make policy (propaganda) points by means of the news, was to have straight news on the one hand, and policy commentaries on the other," he said.
"I thought, why shouldn't the U.S. government have an occasional say-so, to argue its own policies before the radio world?  Wouldn't it be better to say to the world audience, look, here's the straight news.  And now, please listen for two minutes to a commentary that reflects official American policy."
After all, Straus said, "none of that audience is so unsophisticated as to think the American government is in broadcasting just for their health.
"But that audience has to have faith, and we have to earn it, that the American government official viewpoint is contained in the clearly labeled commentaries, not in slanted or managed news.  In the long run, your best chance is simply to be honest with the news and then hope they'll listen to the commentaries on their merits."
There are only about three commentaries a week.  Usually they are broadcast throughout the world, not tailored for specific countries.  In Africa, he said, the commentary about the Tokyo Round might not be broadcast on grounds it did not interest its audience, not on grounds it would be politically or propagandistically imprudent to air it.
Straus, the day I visited him, wore a shirt of murrey color with a dark tie and a neat standard-looking suit of blue cord from Arthur A. Adler.  End fashion flash.
When he is not jogging or roaming the midnight newsroom he gardens with 18 kinds of geranium and many ivies.
"It's just the size of an overgrown handkerchief," he said.  He does not have a lot of dogs or cats or parakeets and a lot of the time he's simply waiting for his wife.  They have four children and both parents, he said, were keen for them to partake of the real world:
"The real world.  But instead, all four of them are in media jobs."
You never know, as a parent, where you went wrong, and life is too short to worry about it now.
I asked him what books formed his mind, hoping for Lewis Carroll, Machiavelli, Castiglione and Gaskell, but refusing to prime the pump with any suggestions:
"Interesting question," he said.  "Which books.  I don't know that I can say." (Pause.  And I knew he intended to go to his grave before he told me.  People are often embarrassed to confess which books they found glorious.  Who wants to admit to "The Anatomy of Melancholy" or "Fairy Tales from Old Japan"?)
"I'll tell you an interesting sidebar about one book," he said.  "My father was best friends and college roommate (Heidelberg) with Otto Frank, father of Anne Frank.  He visited us at our house with the manuscript diary.  My father and I admired it, but thought we were going to have trouble getting it published."
"Probably," I said agreeably.  "The book was marvelous, so naturally you would have trouble finding a publisher.  How long did it take?"
"About a year and a half," he said.  Finally we found a publisher in Germany.  And once people read it, it was soon all over the world."
Voice correspondents in various countries used to be able to buy their scotch at embassy commissaries (to put first things first) and had access to classified papers, and to convenient comfy offices in embassies and to Telex machines and so on.
Straus thought that if news was to be independent of government tampering then his correspondents should rent their own offices and find their own means of transmitting copy, and travel on regular, not diplomatic, passports, and buy their own scotch at stores, and needless to say the correspondents thought the end had come to civilization as they knew it.
But once they were weaned, they liked it.  So did ambassadors, who no longer felt responsible for what correspondents reported (and were no longer chewed out for what correspondents did).
Straus did not smoke.  He is a very strong man, however, and does not faint if others do.
He spoke for a bit on the wide range of men, the richness of variety.  If he were not an American official, he probably would have said a thousand flowers should bloom.
He seemed to be a happy man.  Of course he does not have three dogs to be walked and his children are grown, and he can come to the office in blue jeans if he wants to.Even so, happiness is a gift.
He has family photographs all over the place.  His geraniums are doing fine, and the Carter administration has gone right along with his ideas for the Voice.  The boat people are in the water - no American can escape the burden of that fact.  The wretched refuse of a teeming shore, as a wit once put it.  Still, to be an American, working for the Voice.  It's rather a big deal.  You sense all this from Straus.
The lady with the lamp in the harbor.  (He's a New Yorker).  And it's still, by God, a golden door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

826 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

April 24, 1979, Tuesday, Final Edition


U.S. Program Wins Release of Only 2 Argentine Prisoners

BYLINE: By Charles A. Krause, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: First Section; A12

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, April 23, 1979

A special program designed to allow as many as 500 political prisoners and refugees from Latin America to resettle in the United States has succeeded in securing the release of only two persons, both from Argentina.
Almost everyone familiar with the stalled humanitarian effor, including State Department officials, U.S. diplomats in the field, members of Congress and human rights groups, agrees that the two-year parole program - approved almost a year ago - has been a failure thus far.
The reason for the failure have become the subject of an increasingly acrimonious debate in Washington, where the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, among others, has blasted the Carter administration for "bungling" the program.
"Our inability to respond in a humane and honorable manner to a program that involves a relative handful of victims of right-wing regimes is a stinging indictment of our sense of values and principles," the Council said in a recent statement that compared the U.S. effort in Latin America with more successful - and far larger - efforts on behalf of refugees from Hungary, Cuba and Southeast Asia. 
U.S. diplomats, however, point out that those fleeing Cuba, Hungary and Vietnam were refugees who had either already escaped - in the cases of Hungary and Vietnam - or who were allowed to leave for the United States, in the case of Cuba.
Attempting to persuade governments, whether right-wing or leftwing, to release prisoners considered to be "subversives" is a far more time-consuming and difficult task.
The U.S. ambassador to Argentina, Raul Castro, has been criticized by many liberals in Washington because they do not belive he is fully committed to the human rights campaign launched two years ago by the Carter administration.
Castro is aware of the criticism but denies that more pressure could have been exerted on Argentina's military government.  A spokesman for the embassy here said that Castro has "regularly expressed his disappointment over the slow pace of the program" to Argentine officials.
Castro has, to some extent, become the focus of the criticism in Washington because Argentina, with more uncharged and untried political prisoners than any other country in Latin America, is where U.S. efforts have been concentrated.  The government here admits to holding 2,700 political detainees in its jails, more than 400 of whom have asked for the "right of option" to go to the United States.
Although only two of these 400 have been released under the U.S. parole program, Argentina did free about 80 additional prisoners last year who chose to resettle in Western Europe or Israel rather than the United States.
About 50 refugees who had fled their native countries for political reasons but were not prisoners have come to the United States under the curren parole program.  Following the Chilean coup in 1973, about 2,400 Latin Americans-most of them Chileans-came into the United States on parole visas.
Thousands of Cuban refugees have been admitted under a separate program since 1959.
The U.S. effort got off to a particularly slow start last year because the Argentine government refused to allow U.S. consular officers to interview applicants.  It was not until last November that U.S. officials were allowed to interview some of the prisoners they wanted to see.
Even now it can take weeks or months from the time the embassy requests to interview a prisoner who has applied for the parole program until permission is denied or granted by Argenntina's Interior Ministry.  The Argentine government has another four months, under its own regulations, to decide whether to release a prisoner once he has been given a "certificate of eligibility" by the embassy.
Although Castro and the Carter administration have been criticized for the poor results of the parole program so far, the status of the 407 prisoners who have applied from Argentina for resettlement in the United States tends to support the administration's position that it is not to blame.
The Argentine government has denied the embassy access to 173 of the prisoners who have applied, has yet to act on requests to interview another 60 of the prisoners, is still considering 68 cases where certificates of eligibility have been granted and has denied five other prisoners their "right of option" to leave Argentina after the embassy said they would be eligible for the program.  Sixty-six others who originally applied withdrew their applications.
Argentina's military leaders are known to be particularly wary of freeing detainees, even if they leave Argentina immediately, because a 1973 amnesty is thought to have increased terrorism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

827 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Washington Post

 March 8, 1979, Thursday, Final Edition

 Carter Seeking Major Revision Of Refugee Laws;
Carter Seeking Major Revision of Refugee Laws

BYLINE:  By Christopher Dickey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION:  First Section; A1

LENGTH: 769 words

The Carter administration expects to submit to Congress today the first comprehensive overhaul of U.S. refugee laws since 1952, according to State and Justice department officials.
The bill, written during five months of close consultation between the administration and the Senate Judiciary Committee staff, comes at a time when the number of refugees in Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa and Latin America has reached crisis proportions.  There are now more people seeking permanent resettlement outside their homelands than at any time since the end of World War II.
The new legislation provides for a normal annual flow of at least 50,000 refugees a year into the United States, but the president, after consultation with Congress, could raise that figure before the beginning of any given year. 
If an emergency situation arises, such as the surge of hundreds of thousands of refugees who have fled Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia in recent months, the president would also have the power to admit as many of them as he deemed of special concern to the United States.  The legislation does not set a ceiling on the number who can be brought into the country under such circumstances.
Since World War II an average of about 40,000 refugees a year have been allowed into the United States, including the massive influxes after the Cuban revolution and the fall of Saigon.
The new legislation calls for considerable federal assistance in the relocation and resettlement of the refugees, including extensive educational programs.  Most refugees would be eligible for federally subsidized welfare assistance for up to two yeas after their arrival, though past experience suggests that the vast majority are financially independent of government aid after a few months.
An administration study that accompanied a recent draft of the bill estimates the total cost to the taxpayer for refugee relocation and resettlement at just over $1 billion dollars over the next five years if the flow is kept to 50,000.
If the influx is 100,000 a year, however, the five-year cost would be about $1.7 billion.
The analysis suggests that "most of the same costs would be incurred in any event if a comparable number of refugee admissions were made available under existing law."
At present the only people who may be admitted under normal procedures are those fleeing communist regimes or the Middle East.  As a result it has been extremely difficult for refugees from right-wing oppression to obtain asylum in the United States.
A proposed new definition of "refugee" would apply worldwide to anyone who is outside his or her country and unable or unwilling to return because of persecution, or a well-founded fear of it, stemming from race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.
Because of the limited definition in the past, and the fact that only 17,400 refugees a year were allowed into the United States even if they met it, most refugees have had to come into the United States under the emergency "parole authority" of the attorney general.
This provision in the current law was originally intended to allow in only individual refugees under highly specialized circumstances -- not, as has been the practice since the mid-1950s, scores or even hundreds of thousands of displaced people at a time.  Returned to its position as a limited measure, the parole authority remains a part of the administration bill.
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) has been a prime mover in attempts to revise refugee law.  He and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Peter W. Rodino Jr. (D-N.J.) are expected to introduce the administration proposal.
"For too long our policy toward refugee assistance [has] been ad hoc and has lacked effective planning and efficient programming," Kennedy said recently.  "We have admitted refugees in fits and starts because our immigration law has been inadequate, discriminatory and totally out of touch with today's needs."
Previous legislation was stalled in the Senate Judiciary Committee but Kennedy -- who is now to the committee chairman -- said that he is optimistic about passage of the administration's bill.
Currently there are at least 200,000 refugees in Indochina alone who would be affected by the legislation if it passes.
At present, both Australia and France accept more Indochinese refugees in proportion to their population than the United States does.  Israel, Germany and Britain have all resettled large numbers of refugees for whom they feel they have special responsibilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1979 The Washington Post

835 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

September 29, 2016 Thursday

Derek Gentile: Refugee resettlement fears understandable, unfounded

BYLINE: By Derek Gentile

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 366 words

PITTSFIELD   There has been some angst about plans to relocate 12 to 15 Syrian or Iraqi families to the Pittsfield area.
It's understandable; there is always fear of the unknown. And my reasons for supporting it are rooted in our mission as Americans. But I suspect that those who fear this relocation have little interest in the concept of America as a haven for refugees. Although, obviously, that's what America was for their ancestors. 
But as an operational point, let me point this out: The possibility of terrorists disguised as refugees infiltrating the city is not as certain as one might think.
Syrian refugees are the most vetted refugees in the world right now, for obvious reasons. It takes them about 18 months to two years to get through the process.
From a practical standpoint, that's too long for terrorists. It is much easier for them to come through Europe and then enter the United States that way.
And easier still is to simply radicalize Americans already here. It's easier for Americans to buy guns, easier to by bomb-making materials, easier to move around the country.
My understanding is that ISIS in particular is attempting to radicalize Americans of non-Middle eastern origin. They are reaching out to, in particular, citizens of Irish or Nordic origins. We don't know how successful that is, but I suspect we may be seeing more of those ethnic groups involved in terrorist acts in the future.
I do want to say that I know of people who have come over from Middle Eastern countries. They all have families, and some of those families are still back in what's left of their country.
Their principal goal is to get the rest of their family to a safe place. All the ones I know are tremendously grateful to the United States for providing them with a new life and a safe one.
And all of them respect what they have here and want to contribute to, not live off, the country.
Look, I get it. I'm certainly not going to change anyone's mind. Fear and racial animosity are strong things. But I don't think this is going to be the disaster many people believe.
And I plan to keep track of this relocation. And we'll see in a year or two what shakes out.
Contact Derek Gentile at 413-496-6251.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
All Rights Reserved

837 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

September 21, 2016 Wednesday

Our Opinion: Pittsfield can participate in refugee crisis solution

BYLINE: The Berkshire Eagle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 655 words

Pittsfield and Berkshire County have watched from the sidelines as the world's refugee tragedy has unfolded. Now residents can help make a difference.
The Jewish Family Service of Western Massachusetts is leading an initiative to relocate refugees, primarily from Syria and Iraq, to Pittsfield and surrounding towns by year's end. The Berkshire Immigrant Center and the Pittsfield Area Council of Congregations are joining the effort, along with local officials, and the groups will host a public forum on Monday at 6 p.m. at the Berkshire Athenaeum to outline the specifics of the federally backed program.
The proposal comes as a United Nations summit hosted by President Obama generated pledges from dozens of countries to resettle or admit roughly 360,000 refugees. If the countries follow through on their pledges this will have a huge impact, but the U.N. refugee agency UNHCR estimates that 1.2 million refugees trying to escape war, drought, poverty and persecution need to find homes. 
The proposal also comes in the wake of the Ken Burns documentary "Defying the Nazis: The Sharps' War" which was televised on PBS Tuesday night. Waitstill Sharp, a Unitarian minister in Wellesley, Massachusetts, and his wife Martha were asked by the Unitarian Church to go to Europe to help Jewish refugees escape the rapidly growing Nazi threat. Leaving their two young children behind, the Sharps went into the heart of Nazi-occupied Europe.
Their success in saving Jewish families as well as Jewish writers, scientists and journalists, involved remarkable courage and daring, and it makes for an enthralling documentary. However, their exploits became necessary because the U.S. and other Western nations left a 1938 summit in France to discuss the growing number of Jewish refugees fleeing the Nazis without committing to rescuing them and taking them in.
It was a shameful moment in U.S. history, although the U.S. did better in providing refuge in later years to those fleeing the former Soviet Union. The Jewish Family Service helped settled some of those refugees in Western Massachusetts. The Pittsfield effort, however, comes at time when even modest U.S. plans to bring in refugees from the Middle East are hampered by fear and prejudice.
Republican presidential Donald Trump is at the forefront with his usual brand of misinformation. Mr. Trump has called for "extreme vetting" of refugees because "we don't know who they are," but extreme vetting is already in place and we know exactly who they are. Four federal agencies screen refugees, conducting security checks and interviews and scanning fingerprint records. The highest priority is given to families in a process that can take two years or longer.
At an Eagle meeting to discuss the refugee proposal Tuesday, City Councilor John Krol observed that Pittsfield is a good choice because of its long immigrant tradition. Immigrants from Ireland, Italy and other nations helped build the city, and immigrants from South and Central America, Africa and elsewhere are contributing to its renaissance. It was encouraging to learn Tuesday that Pittsfield officials, businesses and residents have expressed enthusiasm about the proposed refugee program.
From letters they had written home while in Europe, it was apparent that the Sharps didn't see themselves as heroes but were moved by a sense of duty to help their fellow human beings when they were in need. The children and grandchildren of the refugees aided by the Sharps spoke in the documentary of the couple's success in saving families and preserving future generations.
Americans face that same obligation, especially considering that the Iraq war destabilized the Middle East and is at the root of the refugee crisis. Pittsfield can help meet that obligation and contribute to the growing diversity of the city and region by supporting the proposed refugee program and welcoming a few families trying to rebuild their lives.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
All Rights Reserved

845 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

December 26, 2015 Saturday

Op-ed: Don't let our leaders fall silent in the face of bigotry

BYLINE: By Stephen A. Goldsmith, Gary Doctorman, David S. Goldsmith And Douglas Goldsmith

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 791 words

Nearly every Utahn has an immigrant relative who came to America, and particularly to Utah, to avoid religious persecution. The Latter-day Saints escaped religious persecution and settled Utah, as did our Jewish grandparents, escaping the pogroms of Eastern Europe. As Jewish immigrants and refugees, they were welcomed and respected.
The second governor of Utah, Simon Bamberger, was Jewish. Jewish refugees and immigrants opened their businesses in Utah. Joe Doctorman traded cattle with Ezra Taft Benson, and his business fed Utahns of all denominations. Arthur Frank, and later Larry Goldsmith, did business with Jew and gentile alike and clothed many Utahns. A walk down Salt Lake City's Main and State streets displayed the Jewish names of Wolfe's, Zinik's, Auerbach's, Schubach's, Brooks', Arent's, Gallenson's, Dupler's and more. 
These Jewish immigrants and refugees fed and clothed and did business with Utahns of all faiths. They fled persecution, and they and their children settled in Utah. They ultimately made this a better place to live.
We have little to fear from refugees. More than likely, we would, as history suggests, only stand to benefit a great deal by welcoming them into our communities.
Right now, those desperate to leave war-torn Syria are largely Muslim and some are Christian. Eleven million Syrians, out of 22 million, are no longer in their homes. That would be equivalent to displacing nearly every person throughout the Intermountain West, from Arizona to Montana. It is a human tragedy that deserves a humane response. Turkey, Canada, Germany and France now all welcome Syrian refugees and immigrants.
But here in America, the most outspoken political candidates argue that Americans should rebuke Muslims as we once did Chinese, Japanese, Irish, Jews and others. Donald Trump wants to stop Muslims at the border. We have learned in America not to punish groups for the sins of the group's criminals. But some in America seem not to have learned this important lesson.
The First Amendment of the United States Constitution prohibits impeding the free exercise of religion. Yet Donald Trump is advocating a complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States. We are not naccve about the threat of terrorism, but there should be no religious test to enter America. Many leaders throughout the world have condemned Trump. On Dec. 2, 1,000 rabbis in the U.S. signed a letter in support of welcoming Syrian refugees.
Gov. Gary Herbert refused to join most Republican governors, and Utah will welcome Syrian immigrants and refugees. Thank you, Gov. Herbert. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, who was raised Jewish, recently met with Muslims at the Khadeeja Islamic Center and condemned Donald Trump's ban on Muslims to enter the United States as "un-American, immoral and irresponsible." The LDS Church spoke in support of religious freedom and pluralism, stating that just as Joseph Smith would be willing to die to protect a Mormon, he would die defending the rights of a good man of any denomination. Well said.
This spirit of inclusion was captured by the great Jewish writer Emma Lazarus, whose words are inscribed at the base of our Statue of Liberty:
"Give me your tired, your poor,
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me:
I lift my lamp beside the golden door."
Herbert and Chaffetz have spoken, but where are the rest of Utah's politicians? Are they afraid of the fear mongers?
The best disinfectant for hate speech is to have people of good faith speak out forcefully against hate speech.
We call on the Republicans, Democrats and independents to speak out against these hateful, bigoted and extremist views in politics. We also call upon every member of our community to reach out to our Muslim brothers and sisters, especially their children, and offer them the same safety and support we received when our families arrived in this desert. As occupiers of First People's land, we must remain mindful of both our privilege and our obligations.
Please speak loud and clear that we will not tolerate hate or bigotry from our politicians. Speak to your neighbors, respond on social media to condemn hate and bigoted speech. Speak in church meetings. Write to your politicians to demand they speak out. We cannot let politicians divide us. We cannot be silent to hate and bigotry from our politicians any longer.
We are the grateful grandsons of immigrants.
Stephen A. Goldsmith is an associate professor at the University of Utah. Gary Doctorman is a lawyer who has 36 years of volunteering for Utah non-profits. David S. Goldsmith is a healthcare technology consultant. Douglas Goldsmith is executive director of The Children's Center.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

852 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Our Opinion: Our nation of immigrants gives thanks

BYLINE: The Berkshire Eagle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 272 words

On this Thanksgiving Day, anyone who is not of Native American ancestry should be grateful that their forebears managed to get here when they did. 
America is indeed a nation of immigrants, as the phrase has it, but it also in a sense a nation of refugees. The hardy Pilgrims whose story we celebrate today fled religious persecution in Europe, and today, millions more flee what is largely religion-based persecution in the Middle East.
We in this nation of immigrants and refugees add to that persecution when we reject desperate refugees out of fear or argue that they be divided into groups of welcome Christians and unwelcome Muslims. That behavior is fundamentally un-American.
Listening to alarmist Republican presidential candidates, one might think that the United States had already been reduced to a post-apocalyptic wasteland, but we actually have much to be thankful for on this day. Our political battles are largely fought over the airwaves which, however distasteful, is preferable to the streets. Voters will have the final say, not dictators, royalty or even rich campaign donors.
With intolerance of others on display around the world, it is incumbent upon the U.S. to show its tolerance. When America stands behind its traditional principles, as opposed to undermining them out of fear and meanness, it continues to be a beacon of hope.
The United States has its share of well-documented problems, but Americans have more to be thankful for than do many millions of others the world over. We have enough to share with others less fortunate, as America has done since its birth. This is not the time for that to change.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
All Rights Reserved

857 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Salt Lake Tribune

September 13, 2015 Sunday

Letter: Refugees yearning to breath free

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 228 words

It has been disheartening to watch the recent media images of refugees from Syria, Afghanistan and Ukraine in their flight from death and persecution. While these images can never fully capture their tragedy and trauma, it is clear that these displaced people have been trying to reach Western European countries under extreme hardships and in utmost desperation. 
Four million Syrians have been forced to leave their homes and risk their safety in the face of greater threats ccc the civil war, political violence, and poverty that have been devastating their country for four years.
War refugees from any country deserve a safe harbor and basic protections, and America has been devoted to this moral dictum since her founding. I hope that our representatives in Washington, D.C., will lead the way in insisting that our government broaden and speed up its policy on the current refugee crisis. (Only 1,500 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the U.S. since 2011). While the most impactful way to stop the escalation of this humanitarian problem is to address the root cause, namely stop the violent conflicts, providing a refuge has now become even more urgent. Like many times before, the United States should reaffirm our strong commitment to universal human rights and values ccc life and liberty for all "yearning to breathe free."
Fatima Mujcinovic
Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 The Salt Lake Tribune
All Rights Reserved

858 of 999 DOCUMENTS


The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

September 12, 2015 Saturday

Our Opinion: Refugee crisis provides a morality test

BYLINE: The Berkshire Eagle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 671 words

As is the case with most of the world's problems, there are no good solutions to the refugee crisis in Europe. The only certainty is that inaction will make matters worse.
Jean-Claude Juncker, the top official in the European Union, late last week offered a plan to distribute 160,000 refugees, primarily from disintegrating Syria, among members of the EU. This plan will be a real test for the EU given that some of its members are virulently anti-refugee.
If only more nations could be like Sweden, a beacon of humanitarianism through a century of turmoil in Europe. It has put out the welcome map for refugees, as has, to its great credit, Germany. Germany, which has not behaved as Sweden as over the past century to say the least, appears to be using the refugee crisis as an opportunity to do penance for creating so many refugees, in particular during the early years of Hitler's rise to power. 
Then there is Greece, Europe's most dysfunctional nation, which couldn't begin to handle the easily predicted flood of refugees and compounded the crisis with its chaotic non-response to it. Greece, however, was at least not as mean-spirited as Hungary, a low-profile nation rarely in the news that embarrassed itself world-wide with its cruel and often violent response to refugees seeking to move through the nation to Western Europe.
Hungary's response will long be symbolized in the shocking footage of a camerawoman, ostensibly filming fleeing refugees for a news story, sticking out her foot to trip a man running with a child in his arms. The woman, a disgrace to objective journalists everywhere, was fired by her news station, but this kind of act cannot be seen as unique in a nation whose prime minister, Viktor Orban, said Hungary would not accept the primarily Muslim refugees because he wanted "to keep Europe Christian."
In advance of Monday's meeting of European leaders to discuss the Juncker plan, Prime Minister Orban urged his fellow top officials not to accept it, even though the plan calls for 54,000 refugees stuck in Hungary to be sent to other nations. Mr. Orban's recalcitrance is based solely on spite given that no refugees want any part of staying in unfriendly Hungary anyway. Germany has gallantly agreed to make up for Hungary's quota if it will not participate in the plan, but Europe will not be able to fully do its part unless all of its nations acknowledge that to one extent or another they are a nation of refugees are bear some responsibility to help the newest wave.
The United States must do its part, for basic humanitarian reasons and to reclaim some of the moral high ground the nation lost when it invaded Iraq and contributed significantly to the turmoil in the Middle East. President Obama suggested Thursday that the United States would take in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees, which is not enough for nation of our size. The White House tried to head off anti-immigrant, anti-refugee critics by emphasizing that it would not expedite the lengthy review process for refugees, which would leave them in limbo for as long as two years and would encourage European nations to do the same.
Opponents observe that the United States could end up allowing a future domestic terrorist to enter its borders, and while true, this possibility is not an excuse for closing the doors to thousands of people fleeing violence and oppression and seeking a better life. Similarly, while critics of accepting refugees are correct that U.S. must to better by Americans living in poverty and misery, our failure to do right in that regard is hardly an excuse to fail others.
America is a rich nation suffering from a huge imbalance in possession of that wealth. If it were distributed more fairly, it could easily address domestic poverty while assisting the refugees fleeing the twin threats of terrorism and dictatorship. Our own shortcomings cannot prevent us from doing whatever we can to help people elsewhere in need and set an example for the rest of the world to follow. That is what Americans do.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
All Rights Reserved

887 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 29, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
In Clinton's Words: 'Speak With a Single Voice'

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

Following are excerpts from President Clinton's statement on Kosovo and questions and answers yesterday at the White House, as recorded by The New York Times, and a letter he wrote to House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert :
 
Statement by Clinton 
 I just had a good meeting with a large bipartisan delegation from both houses of Congress on Kosovo. It was our fourth meeting since the air strikes began. We spoke about the NATO summit, its unity and determination to achieve our objectives in Kosovo, about the progress of our military campaign and the intensification of economic sanctions, about the humanitarian challenge that we face and the work that we and our allies are doing to meet it.
Just on Monday, some 3,500 Kosovar refugees in trains and buses arrived in Montenegro. Yesterday about 5,000 entered Macedonia. Almost 3,000 arrived in Albania exhausted, hungry, shaken, all by the violence and abuse they experienced on the way.
At one point, 1.8 million ethnic Albanians lived in Kosovo. Nearly one and a half million have been displaced since the start of the crisis. . . .
We are also providing more funds to the U.S. High Commissioner for Refugees and to NGO's to deliver food and supplies to the refugees. Our Defense Department has found a site for the facility it will build in Albania for up to 20,000 refugees. We hope it will begin taking in refugees in about two weeks.
I spoke to members of Congress about all these efforts today. I told them that now is the time to pass the supplemental funding for Kosovo that I requested nine days ago. We needed to maintain our military readiness. Just as important, we need to sustain humanitarian relief and support for the front-line nations that have absorbed the brunt of this emergency.
Let me stress that my request fully funds our military and humanitarian needs in Kosovo. The Congress should resist the temptation to add unrelated expenditures, even important ones, which could delay the process, because that would undermine the very goals that this funding is intended to meet. We must get a Kosovo funding measure passed and to my desk now.
We also talked about other legislative initiatives pending on Kosovo in the Congress. I stressed that the 19 NATO allies are speaking with a single voice. America must continue to speak with a single voice, as well. I told them we would welcome the support of the Congress, so that Mr. Milosevic will have no doubt that we have the determination and the patience to persevere until we prevail.
Each day our military campaign takes a toll on Serbia's machinery of repression. The Serbian leadership has failed to divide us and will not outlast us. The combined military might and moral determination of Europe and North America will endure.
We know what the final outcome will be. The Serbian forces will leave Kosovo. An international security force will deploy to protect all the people there, Serbs as well as Albanians. And the refugees will return with security and self-government.
Q -- Mr. President, do you see any signs that Milosevic is losing his grip, Sir? Any signs at all?
CLINTON -- We have some indications that there are differences of opinion, obviously, developing in Belgrade. And we saw some of it public this week. There are some things that we know that I -- I think I should not comment on.
But the thing I want to tell the American people is we know objectively what damage has been done. We know now we're going to be in a position to fly around the clock at lower altitudes from all directions in better weather. Historically, the weather is better in May than in April, better in June than in May, better in July than in June.
Letter to Hastert --
Dear Mr. Speaker:
 I appreciate the opportunity to continue to consult closely with the Congress regarding events in Kosovo.
The unprecedented unity of the NATO members is reflected in our agreement at the recent summit to continue and intensify the air campaign. Milosevic must not doubt the resolve of the NATO alliance to prevail. I am confident we will do so through use of air power.
However, were I to change my policy with regard to the introduction of ground forces, I can assure you that I would fully consult with the Congress. Indeed, without regard to our differing constitutional views on the use of force, I would ask for Congressional support before introducing U.S. ground forces into Kosovo into a nonpermissive environment. Milosevic can have no doubt about the resolve of the United States to address the security threat to the Balkans and the humanitarian crisis in Kosovo. The refugees must be allowed to go home to a safe and secure environment.
 
Sincerely,
Bill Clinton  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company

891 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE EUROPEANS;
News Reports Bolster Support for Bombings

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1015 words

DATELINE: LONDON, April 5

The television images of refugees staggering out of Kosovo are having a powerful effect on public opinion across Europe, turning pacifists and anti-NATO activists of decades ago and NATO critics of just a week ago into supporters of sustained bombing.
In Madrid, Francisco Sanchez, a 25-year-old office worker, has watched the coverage and felt a national kinship with the suffering. "Spaniards also have emigrated when we were in need," he said, "and we should accept them here." 
 In Italy, the images of Kosovars packed onto exile trains have brought the war home with chilling reminders of moments from "Life Is Beautiful," the Holocaust tale by the Academy Award-winning actor Roberto Benigni.
In Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair said that for him the refugee pictures were "scenes that belong to Europe's darkest hour."
Newscasts and front pages are filled daily with accounts of brutality and suffering and deeply affecting pictures of people stranded in border fields, streaming across frontiers in forced marches and crowding around relief workers for food.
Roy Hattersley, a former British Labor Party deputy leader and Government minister, wrote in today's Guardian: "My own doubts about the bombing -- expressed in this column last week -- have been completely removed by seven days of pictures. A NATO victory is the only real hope of permanent relief and decent resettlement for the refugees.
"A NATO defeat would convince political psychopaths all over the world that they, like Slobodan Milosevic, could tyrannize a whole people and get away with it. Whether or not we should have started the war, we clearly have to finish it. That must be obvious to everyone who owns a television set."
Earlier horror about seeing aerial combat return to Europe for the first time in 50 years is being overwhelmed by concern for the refugees and revulsion at the way they have been forced from their homeland.
Daily now across Europe there are announcements of government and private appeals to speed aid to the refugees, and even countries like Britain and France with reluctance to admit foreigners have had to respond to public pressure to shelter the refugees.
Germany has offered to take 40,000 Kosovars; the United States and Turkey, 20,000 each; Norway, 6,000, and Canada and Greece, 5,000 each. Britain and France said at first that they worried that airlifting refugees from the Balkans, even with the understanding that they would one day return to Kosovo, would risk abetting Mr. Milosevic's own desire to rid the province of its ethnic Albanians.
Mr. Blair conceded today that his Government would accept an unspecified number of refugees, adding that the "ultimate objective" must remain repatriating them to Kosovo. The French Defense Minister, Alain Richard, said Paris did not want to be seen taking a position apart from its allies.
But Mr. Blair and Mr. Richard twinned these moves with aggressive statements about the need for NATO to persevere in the bombing. Mr. Richard announced "even more intense attacks" by France's Mirage 2000-D fighter-bombers, and Mr. Blair said, "People have to be prepared to go on, have to be prepared for the longer haul in order to make sure that our objectives are secured and successful."
In his briefing today, the NATO spokesman, Jamie Shea, stressed the alliance's commitment to caring for the exiles, saying it was "fully mobilized" behind the refugee assistance effort, building campsites and ferrying aid into Albania and Macedonia.
Though there has been acknowledgment of the historic menace of Balkan instability to Europe, the coming together of a joint political will on the Continent has not been based on a perceived threat to national political and economic interests, the traditional threshold issue.
What is driving the growing support for NATO is the sense of responsibility for forestalling human rights abuses and punishing those who commit them. A Guardian editorial said approvingly that European policy was increasingly in the hands of "humanitarian hawks."
In Germany, Prime Minister Gerhard Schroder, Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping and Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who were stern critics of United States policy in Vietnam and the installation of nuclear weapons in their country in the 1980's, are now taking Germany into its first war in 50 years.
A recent German newspaper headline read, "Dictators Look Out -- the 1968'ers Are in Charge."
Not all members of Mr. Fischer's Green Party are content with the Government's unflinching backing of NATO's aerial strikes. Roland Appel, a party leader in Dusseldorf, called it the party's "most difficult test" and pleaded with members to avoid reflexive pacifism that could split the party and force it out of the country's ruling coalition.
Mr. Schroder said today that he saw no reason to change the strategy of relying primarily on military force rather than diplomacy. Gunter Verheugen, a top Social Democrat within the Foreign Ministry, was blunter. "We are dealing here with one of the most terrible criminals of this century," he said, "and he must be treated accordingly."
In Italy, where Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema has given only wavering support to the bombing and called for a return to negotiations, public opinion has been swayed toward NATO through the dramatic reports of Antonio Russo, a broadcaster for a left-wing radio station. He stayed in Pristina, Kosovo's capital, after other Western journalists had left and managed to spirit out dispatches from a hiding place that students had arranged for him.
He escaped on Friday and sent an impassioned report to the daily La Repubblica recounting his odyssey among Kosovars in a sealed train.
The detail that drew particular attention because it so closely recalled "Life Is Beautiful" was the harrowing moment when heavily armed Serbs forced women, children and the elderly, with Mr. Russo among them, onto the freight cars. As they herded them on board, the Serbs said, "Come on, you've won a free train ride -- in exchange for your homes."
  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the outskirts of Kukes, Albania, children sheltered themselves yesterday from the blast of a French helicopter delivering military rations as part of the NATO relief effort for refugees from Kosovo. (Associated Press)

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company

893 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 2, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE EUROPEANS;
Already Burdened, Western Europe Is Reluctant to Take in Kosovo's Outcasts

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 1

The huge numbers of ethnic Albanians fleeing Kosovo are raising acute concerns in west European countries about the potential arrival of tens of thousands of refugees in societies already strained by high unemployment, sluggish economic growth and simmering resentment of foreigners.
Fearing a politically explosive influx, Germany said today that Kosovo's Albanian outcasts should remain in the Balkans and stay outside "western or northern Europe." 
 Germany, where over 4 million people, or more than 10 percent of the work force, is jobless, and where 350,000 refugees poured in from Bosnia during the 1992-95 war, is particularly concerned. But France and Italy face similar problems and appear equally determined to insure the refugees do not move west.
Over time, aid officials said, the issue could drive a wedge between the United States and its European NATO partners because it illustrates how broadly destabilizing the conflict is on the European continent while America has a large buffer, the Atlantic Ocean.
"We believe the refugees should remain as close to Kosovo as possible," the German Deputy Foreign Minister, Gunter Verheugen, said during a brief visit to the Macedonian capital, Skopje. "Our assumption is that we will soon achieve our political goal and the refugees will be able to return to Kosovo."
It was not clear, given the state of the conflict, what led Mr. Verheugen to that assumption. He added that "acceptance of the refugees into western or northern Europe" would send "a completely false signal."
The implications of a policy of zero acceptance of refugees appeared fraught with danger for the Balkans. For it will mean that fragile states, with scant resources and, in the case of Macedonia, a tenuous balance of ethnic groups, are to be subjected to enormous new social pressures if the refugees are unable to return soon.
Yet accepting refugees also involves political risk. Austria, a country of just over 8 million people that took in 70,000 refugees during the Bosnian war, has said it will accept refugees from Kosovo. But today the party of the Austrian far right-winger Jorg Haider, who has consistently campaigned against foreigners and immigrants, said Austria had neither the space nor the ability to cope with the influx. He recently did outstandingly well in provincial elections, and tensions over Kosovo refugees could further strengthen his party, already Europe's strongest far right movement, in national elections in October.
With the number of Kosovo Albanian refugees totaling almost 190,000 over the past week alone, the scale of reported "ethnic cleansing" in recent days appears comparable only to the first months of the Bosnian war.
In the spring and summer of 1992, over 750,000 Bosnian Muslims were hounded from their homes by the Serbs, using methods of terror that appear now to have been revived. In just a few days in August 1995, over 150,000 Serbs poured out of Croatia, fleeing a lightning Croatian attack to take back land seized by the Serbs during the Croatian war of 1991.
Mr. Verheugen's statement came as Joschka Fischer, the German Foreign Minister, today chaired a hastily convened conference in Bonn on the plight of the refugees.
After talks with other European ministers and with Sadako Ogata, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Fischer suggested that Western policy should consist of sending money and food to the Balkans to sustain the refugees there, rather than opening western Europe's doors to them.
Germany today pledged $13.8 million to help the refugees and flew 45 tons of goods and medicine to Albania and Skopje. Spain and France dispatched a total of 50 tons of food.
Keeping the refugees close to Kosovo also helps to underpin statements by ministers in NATO governments that the ethnic Albanians will -- unlike many of the refugees who fled Bosnia -- eventually go home.
The policy outlined at today's conference was consistent with that of the center-left Government of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, which has tried, under fierce attack from the right, to make German citizenship available to more of the seven million foreigners living here, but has been intransigent in saying that there is no room for new arrivals.
In general, with their social insurance budgets strained by aging populations and a large number of unemployed, western European societies have become progressively more closed to accepting refugees. Although still marginal, rightist movements in France and Germany have grown by exploiting anti-immigrant sentiment.
The huge influx of Bosnian refugees cost Germany over $11 billion and fed resentments rooted in an unemployment level that exceeds 20 percent in many parts of the former East Germany. Since the Bosnian war ended, all but 80,000 of the refugees have been sent back -- some of them forcibly -- but the tensions have not abated.
The German Government has had solid support for its participation in the bombing of Yugoslavia, 54 years after the collapse of the Third Reich. But it apparently was not prepared for the possible social consequences.
Other NATO governments could also come under severe strain because of the refugee problem. Greece borders both Albania and Macedonia, which have received the bulk of the massive influx of ethnic Albanians from Kosovo; Italy is just across the Adriatic from Albania and Montenegro, the Yugoslav republic that is also receiving Kosovo refugees. Albania's near-collapse in the past decade already has sent tens if not hundreds of thousands of its citizens flooding into Italy and Greece.
The German Government's current stance of refusing more refugees appeared certain to anger the more left-leaning fringe of the governing Green Party, known as the "fundamentalist" wing. Already restive over a sustained bombing campaign that runs diametrically counter to the party's pacifist roots, these members of the Green Party back an open-door policy to political refugees.
Hans-Christian Strobele, a Green member of the Bundestag, has already collected 500 signatures from party members demanding an end to the bombardment. Some evidence of the strength of this movement should become apparent during the so-called Easter Marches this weekend that traditionally rally German pacifists.
Whatever the outcome of the marches, it is clear that the Greens are undergoing strains that could undermine the governing coalition, especially if NATO's bombing continues for weeks, as some alliance commanders have suggested.
Several leading German newspapers have also attacked the Kosovo refugee policy. "The Germans' decision to deport Bosnian refugees back to their homeland was made with the explanation that resources were needed in case of a new catastrophe," the Suddeutsche Zeitung commented today. "That catastrophe is here."  
http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company

904 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Smaller Is Wealthier

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 132 words


To the Editor:
Corporate America may be bullish on itself and the future of our country, believing the United States will continue to do better than Europe and Japan (Week in Review, April 27). However, in the year 2100 Japan will be in far better shape than the United States. 
 A major factor is Japan's projected population decline to one more compatible with its resource endowment, while an America that has rejected the 1972 population stabilization recommendation of the President's Commission on Population and the American Future will be approaching one billion population -- all the while protesting that population is not a controllable variable.
 
B. MEREDITH BURKE
Palo Alto, Calif., May 1, 1997
 
The writer is a visiting scholar at the Hoover Institution.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company

910 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 25, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

West Agrees on Relief Role for Africa Force

BYLINE: Reuters 

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany, Nov. 24

Western military leaders today agreed that any international force for Central Africa would be limited to helping deliver relief and helping refugees go home but they did not specify the number of troops or whether a force would even be dispatched.
The military leaders also did not say where the troops would be based or what their rules of engagement would be. The contingency plans from the three-day meeting, held at United States European Command in Germany, now go to political leaders for consideration. 
 "The objectives of such a force would be strictly humanitarian," said Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada, who has been named to head the force. "The force would be politically and militarily neutral."
 "The mission of a multinational force, as we have defined it, would be to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance and voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons," he said. The general told a news briefing that Western and African military leaders came to a consensus that at least 250,000 refugees were still roaming eastern Zaire.
 The number was close to an earlier United States estimate of 202,000 but far below the 700,000 refugees that aid groups and the United Nations say remain there.      

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

912 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

November 7, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Mounties smash illegal-immigrant ring: Hundreds passed through Canada to U.S. sweatshops and brothels

BYLINE: JOHN IBBITSON; SOUTHAM NEWSPAPERS; SOUTHAM NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 537 words

DATELINE: TORONTO

 
 Police say Canada served as the conduit for a smuggling ring that transported hundreds of illegal immigrants from China to Manhattan's sweatshops and brothels.
At a Toronto press conference, officials from various Canadian and American agencies provided details yesterday of what they say is one of the most elaborate and lucrative alien-smuggling syndicates ever uncovered in Canada.
And they admitted that, while the suspected ringleaders might have been apprehended, the human cargo they shipped might never be identified. 
The ring "is very sophisticated. It operates globally, in numerous jurisdictions," RCMP Sgt. Vern Secord told reporters. As smuggling busts go, "this is one of the most significant we've had in Canada."
Thirteen people from Vancouver, Toronto and Cornwall have been charged with conspiracy to commit alien smuggling. They also face similar charges in the United States. More arrests are expected.
According to police, between 30 and 40 illegal immigrants made the circuitous trip from China to the United States each month. The operation probably extended back until at least 1994 and involved about 700 immigrants, although police can only confirm 125 individuals made the trip between July and November of this year.
The illegal immigrants travelled from Fujian province to Hong Kong, then to Bangkok and on to various destinations in South America to Europe.
From there, according to Canadian immigration officials, they flew to Montreal or Vancouver, destroying their travel documents or giving them to one of the ring's operators en route.
Upon arriving in Canada, the illegal aliens would claim refugee status. But before their refugee hearing began, they would be spirited away to "safe houses" in Toronto, and then slipped across the border to the United States, either in the Niagara region or at Cornwall.
The cost for this service was about $ 45,000 Canadian. Since the annual income of the immigrants was often hundreds, rather than thousands, of dollars, police say the ringleaders would extort the fee from family members in North America, or force the immigrants into prostitution or illegal sweatshops in New York.
The ringleaders could have raked in as much as $ 30 million over the life of the scheme, police say.
The investigation began in earnest this summer, after Canadian immigration officials became suspicious of refugee claimants who seemed to have similar stories when questioned, and who were met at the airport by the same people.
The no-shows at the refugee hearings were also noted, said Lucille LeBlanc of Immigration Canada.
"The vast majority of people who come to Canada to claim refugee status show up for the hearing," she said.
The investigation ultimately involved not only numerous Canadian and American police forces and government agencies, but immigration investigators in Hong Kong and the Royal Thai police.
Michael McLaughlin of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service indicated there was little effort going into identifying and deporting those who had been smuggled into his country by the syndicate.
"We don't know of everybody who's crossed the United States border illegally," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
CanWest Global Communications Corp.
All Rights Reserved

915 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 26, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Harold Trobe Is Dead at 82; Helped Resettle War Refugees

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

Harold Trobe, a key figure in efforts to rescue and resettle hundreds of thousands of Jewish refugees from war-ravaged Europe, died on Monday at his home in Gainesville, Fla., where he had retired in 1980. He was 82.
The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Mr. Trobe spent 36 years overseas for the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, starting in 1944. His assignments as a country director for the committee took him to places with great concentrations of human suffering.
He was in charge of the agency's commitments to finance the movement of refugees, feed, shelter and clothe them and provide medical attention. He also traveled in the United States to lecture and raise money.
Born in Beaver Falls, Pa., the son of a rabbi, Mr. Trobe graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and earned an master's degree in 1937 from what is now the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work. German immigration to the United States was on the rise at the time, and he found work in Pittsburgh to retrain and find jobs for the new arrivals and care for their children.
He turned to fund-raising and was increasingly engrossed in the plight of European Jews. In 1944 he joined the Joint Distribution Committee, which appointed him its overseas field representative and sent him to Lisbon, its European headquarters.
Portugal was then a way station for refugees from German-occupied Europe, many of them Jews. Largely because of his efforts, two shiploads of refugees were able to sail for Palestine in the face of diplomatic opposition.
The end of World War II in 1945 left an immense mass of displaced people all over Europe. Mr. Trobe was sent to Czechoslovakia, an early focal point for displaced people.
As the situation stabilized there in 1946, he went on to Milan as the committee's director for northern Italy. With long gaps between the arrival and departure of displaced people, Mr. Trobe and his assistants cared for the well-being of many of them.
After a stint in Vienna, he returned to Italy in 1952 as countrywide Joint Distribution Committee director. He remained there for five years, focusing on the flight of Jews from North Africa.
He then served as the director general of the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society for Europe and North Africa for five years, and four more in Rio de Janeiro in the same position for all of Latin America. From 1966 until his retirement, he worked for Joint Distribution Committee in Israel.
In an interview with The Jerusalem Post in 1969 he remembered local authorities' complaints of illegal entry by refugees. "How they get across the border is not my business," he said he told them, "but the minute they come across, they are. If they come across illegally, that's also not my concern.
"I'm not the police. I feed them."
Mr. Trobe is survived by his wife of 58 years, Ruth Weiner Trobe; two sons, Jonathan D. of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Dr. Thomas O. of Zurich; a daughter, Susan T. Goldbard of Millbrae, Calif.; a brother, Jacob L. of Haverford, Pa., and six grandchildren.

NAME: Harold Trobe

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Trobe (Associated Press, 1950)
      

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company

918 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 23, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Voyage of the Damned

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 17;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

On May 13, 1939, the German passenger ship St. Louis left Hamburg, sailing for Havana. On board were 930 Jewish refugees, all carrying landing certificates for Cuba.
When the ship arrived, the pro-Fascist Cuban Government would not let them land. For nine days, the St. Louis circled off Havana and Florida. On June 5, Cuba said the refugees could go ashore, if they posted a total of $453,000, within a deliberately impossible 24 hours. 
 The U.S. refused to allow the passengers onto American soil. On June 6 the ship headed back to Europe.
Since then, the U.S. has given refuge to millions from many parts of the world. They gave America their muscle and brain, and love.
Now the U.S. is seized with a fear of compassion, a surrender to the political campaign against immigrants. Fifty-six springs after the St. Louis, the U.S. is not only turning away many refugees it would have welcomed not long ago, but is an essential co-conspiring partner in forcing them back to countries they fled -- most recently Cuba, Vietnam and Laos. For these people -- including thousands who once fought on America's side -- the U.S. has become the ship back to hell.
To make the deal with Fidel Castro to send back all Cubans picked up at sea, the Clinton Administration had to work in utter stealth, for fear the operation would be discovered. Neither U.S. diplomats responsible for Cuban relations, Congress nor the press found out until the clandestine deed was done, by four or five American officials, good men otherwise.
But about the Vietnamese and Laotians, Americans will never be able to say we did not know; 47,000 of them have been in detention camps in Hong Kong, Thailand and other Asian countries for years.
They are to be returned to the countries they fled by boat -- carried there in shackles if need be by the U.N., with America's money and collaboration, the propaganda of American anti-immigrant groups, and the distaste of their hosts for extended visits by other Asians, those with much courage but no money.
Soon Congress will vote on a measure by Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey, and others that would admit about 20,000 refugees at "high risk," saving them from the prison planes awaiting them.
After the Vietnam War, many Vietnamese and Laotians were admitted to the U.S. Left behind in the camps were about 5,500 Laotians who once fought for the U.S. and Vietnamese also once considered refugees. Some had agreed to return, but in fear changed their minds -- thus no longer refugees, you see.
Mr. Smith, head of the House Human Rights Subcommittee, is a friend of refugees and fighter against religious persecution. He calls for a one-time operation, within existing quotas. U.S. funds would be withdrawn from forced-return operations, probably killing them.
The State Department has shown how callous it can be when it tries.  When a Laotian in Colorado asked about countrymen in a Thai camp, back came a letter from Edward H. Wilkinson, counselor in the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok. He said they were confined in a special "detention" center. They had violated "decisions" taken at an international "technical" meeting that forbids people in the camps from "actively working" against "voluntary repatriation," under pain of "appropriate" reprisals.  So: Dissidents against their governments are also punished for dissenting with the international bureaucracy about their fate.
Some Americans friendly to refugees still languishing at America's gates are cool to attention to the Vietnamese and Laotians. That is not helpful to any refugees, but to those who want them in chains.
Maybe the Asian refugees will find help someplace. Look at the passengers on the St. Louis. Turned away by Cuba and the U.S., they found refuge in Britain, France, Belgium and the Netherlands after the St. Louis returned. Yes, they were murdered soon enough. But of course the Germans did that, not Cubans or Americans.
The journey of the St. Louis was sometimes called the voyage of the damned. But that does not tell us, does it, exactly who were the damned, and at what moment damnation took place.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company

919 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends;
This Is No Place Like Home

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE  

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 3;   Column 1;   Week in Review Desk  

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: GENEVA

A REFUGEE camp was once an easy thing to spot on the horizon, whether in Central America, the Middle East or Asia. There were neat rows of tents (or thatched huts or little mud-walled houses) with some larger structures bearing the logos of international relief organizations. There was a kind of order. But that was before wars among nations became longstanding lethal skirmishes among neighbors. That was before Bosnia, Rwanda, Chechnya. The camps and the lives of people in flight have changed with the metamorphosis of warfare. 
 "The classic refugee camp with the fence around it and a guard and a flag flying and so on, is less and less the norm," said Robert P. DeVecchi, the president of the International Rescue Committee, a leading American refugee organization for more than half a century. "You have huge populations like the ones who fled Rwanda into Zaire -- over a million people. That isn't a camp. That's a city." And it is but one of the many forms of refugee settlements today.

 
 
Where People Live
 Some Rwandans are living on volcanic rock fields almost devoid of water. Many Palestinians inhabit de facto towns that they have built up in more than a generation of displacement. Refugees from Cuba are living on U.S. military bases. And in Europe, many people in flight are just moving into other people's homes.
 Two weeks ago, the World Food Program began an emergency airlift with meals for up to a quarter of a million people from Chechnya who had taken refuge in north Ossetia, Ingushetia and Dagestan -- three new names on the map of the displaced. About half a million people, more than a third of Chechnya's population, have abandoned their homes, the United Nations says. At least 90 percent of those people, lacking even rudimentary camps, have found refuge with families in other republics.
 An astonishing 1 in every 115 people on earth is now on the run or in some kind of exile, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said last month. According to the count last month, 23 million refugees have fled across borders and another 26 million are displaced in their own countries.
 Africa has nearly 7.5 million refugees and many of the displaced; Asia has 5.7 million refugees and Europe 6 million, not including all of those who have been displaced within their own countries by ethnic partition, particularly in Bosnia. Another 2.3 million -- and an uncounted number of displaced -- are refugees in the former Soviet republics.
 With resettlement abroad now less and less likely, many desperate people seem to be becoming permanent wards of international agencies and private charities. Others are turning to illegal immigration, buying what one refugee official called "that $50 Angola air ticket to Brazil." From there, the road runs northward to the United States.
 At the offices of the High Commissioner for Refugees here in Geneva, it has been recognized for at least a decade that people in refugee settlements need to be retrained and persuaded to go home. Until its budget was cut in the late 1980's, the U.N.H.C.R. was developing projects to help men use their time in the camp more productively.
 While women in the camps tend to reproduce something like village life -- caring for children, cooking, housekeeping -- says Sylvana Foa, the spokeswoman for the High Commissioner, the men can't do the kind of work they did in the fields or shops. Many spend their time drinking and gambling.
 The agency is trying to find something useful for the men to do. This week, Ms. Foa was writing letters to international companies asking for experts -- mechanics from Volvo and appliance repairmen from European factories -- who would live in refugee camps and teach their skills for six-week stints, with expenses paid but no salary.
 The plan is to insure that when the refugees return home, they will not only be able to find jobs but will also be able to rebuild the shattered countries they fled. Ideally, they will avoid the kind of situation that faced the hundreds of thousands of Cambodian refugees who lived on the Thai border in the 1980's and finally returned home two years ago. The Cambodians were unprepared for the new kind of jobs that were in demand. So the United Nations recruited plumbers, electricians and other skilled workers from Thailand.
 For every Cambodian and Central American camp that has closed, dozens of refugee settlements have sprung up in the Balkans and in Africa, from Tanzania to Guinea. As experts look at these new communities and set up work programs, they are concerned about sending the wrong message -- that refugee camps are substitutes for permanent communities. Sadako Ogata, the High Commissioner for Refugees, said donor nations are now putting pressure on refugee officials to make sure that refugees are not housed indefinitely in camps.
 Experts are no longer dealing as much with the immediate crises that come with flight as with the long-range work that is known in the trade as "sustainable human development." That includes not only job training and literacy programs but also psychological help in overcoming trauma and in developing character and self-image.
 Liberian refugees in southern Guinea, who are, so far, only in temporary exile, have, for instance, set up schools with the seriousness of permanent residents. "With four expatriates and about $35 per person per year, a school program has been set up for about 60,000 Liberian children who are not in formal camps but in villages," according to Mr. DeVecchi of the International Rescue Committe. "The Liberians built their own schools. There are Liberian teachers and an all-Liberian curriculum."
 In other cases, people from mutually hostile communities are drawn together into cooperative work, with the idea that someday these people will have to go home and live together. The United Nations Development Program is bringing together Guatemalans, Salvadorans and Nicaraguans from opposite sides of civil wars to build houses, plant nurseries and begin other projects devised by the International Conference on Central American Refugees.
 Though many of these refugee settlements look like permanent villages, refugee workers are determined to hold out the hope that the displaced will one day resume a normal life. No development illustrates this more clearly than the emphasis on mental health. Roy Williams, who has worked with the International Rescue Committee in the former Yugoslavia, said that the trauma refugees face -- particularly when their communities have been torn apart by neighbor fighting neighbor -- inhibits their ability "to return to normalcy or even regard normalcy as something achievable.".
 "The elderly may have no world left to go back to," he said, "and the adolescents are very confused about what's going on." But while the despair may be worse, the refugees are now being prompted, in sessions guided by mental health professionals, to exorcise their demons -- "to talk about rape, violence and how come the fellow who lived next door to you for 20 years has suddenly tried to kill you."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a makeshift school, Rwandan refugee children use sticks as pencils and their legs as notebooks. (Associated Press)
 
Graph: "Those Who Have Fled Their Countries" Figures for the largest refugee programs monitored by the United Nations High Commissioner fot Refugees and how much they spent in 1994 in each area.

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company

920 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

February 1, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 905 words


International A2-11
 
CHINA FAULTED ON HUMAN RIGHTS
A State Department report on international human rights has concluded that China failed to make progress in all major areas of human rights in the past year. A1
 
EUROPE'S RIVERS RAGE
The Netherlands faced its greatest natural catastrophe in more than 40 years as floodwaters continued to rise, forcing more than 100,000 people from their homes. A10 

The Rhine began to recede, leaving wreckage in Germany. A10
 
A PERU-ECUADOR RITUAL
To banana farmers in a remote Peruvian town on the border with Equador, territorial tensions between the two countries have become an annual event. A3
 
The United Nations has closed a refugee camp in Rwanda A2
 
A nominee for American Ambassador to Panama withdrew. A3
 
A Chechen fighter's stories of war against the Russians. A6
 
Cuban refugees in Panama camps angered by scheduled transfer. A7
 
Israeli stock price surge seen as a rebuff to Government.  A8
 
Donors agreed on ways to speed up aid to the Palestinians. A8
 
Yokohama Journal: Japan invests in a growth stock -- day care.  A4
 
National A12-19, A22
 
SHIFT IN TACTICS ON AID TO MEXICO
President Clinton announced that he would use his emergency authority to lend up to $20 billion to Mexico, rather than trying to win Congressional approval for $50 billion in loan guarantees.  A1
 
PRESIDENT CITES LACK OF ACTION
News Analysis: President Clinton said his decision resulted from delays by Congress in acting on his request for loan guarantees.  A1
 
MEXICO MARKET BOOSTED
The Mexican stock market soared and the peso regained some of its lost value after President Clinton announced the emergency aid.  A1
 
The rescue plan helped American and Latin American markets.  A16
 
NEW YEAR FROM THE PAST
Little Saigon Journal: In Southern California, many celebrate the lunar new year by pledging allegiance to a nation that ceased to exist 20 years ago. A12
 
DEFINITIVELY INDEFINITE
When asked by a member of the audience he spoke to in San Antonio if he is a Republican or Democrat, Gen. Colin Powell gave a firm answer: neither.  A12
 
COUNTY RETURNS GIFTS
Officials of the South Carolina county prosecuting Susan Smith in the drowning deaths of her two young sons decided to return $1,147 contributed for her prosecution.  A12
 
ATTACKING IMAGE FIRST
The prosecutors in the O. J. Simpson double murder case began their work by trying to undercut the man everyone has seen by showing injuries to his wife he has acknowledged having inflicted on her.  A14
 
BATTLE LINES HARDENING
In the Senate, six Democrats who have previously supported balanced budget amendments said they would not do so when the current proposal comes to them unless it was altered to protect the Social Security trust fund.  A18
 
AGREEING TO DISAGREE
With Washington talking about giving the states a dramatically enlarged role in administering welfare, the National Governors' Association endorsed the sentiment but was unable to agree on what should be done.  A19
 
KAPOSI'S SARCOMA VIRUS FOUND
Columbia University researchers said they had strong evidence that a virus related to the herpes virus causes the Kaposi's sarcoma, a type of cancer that frequently strikes AIDS patients.  A22
 
Education B7
 
Metro Digest B1
 
FULTON MARKET PROPOSAL
Acknowledging that Federal intervention had failed to eradicate organized-crime influence, the Mayor is proposing a sweeping set of laws that would restore total city control over the Fulton Fish Market. A1
 
TEACHING VALUES IN SCHOOL
Nina Fue, the 1990 New Jersey teacher of the year, believes that the informal teaching of values is being obscured by another hot topic of the moment: school prayer.  A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Atlanta's plans for a Cultural Olympiad alongside the athletics.  C11
Theater: "After-Play," C11
Music: For the spoken word.  C11
A week of Webern.  C12
Megadeth's power trip.  C12
Dance: City Ballet C13
Books: The old Negro elite.  C14
Book Notes.  C14
TV: Examining la Difference.  C16
Moyers joins NBC.  C16
 
The Living Section C1-8
 
Cooking up a storm in Atlanta.  C1
At work with Peter Schickele.  C1
 
Health Page C9
 
Good news about cancer, and bad: where we stand.
Personal Health: Why good health resolutions fail.
 
Sports B8-13
 
Baseball: Union continues contract freeze. B10
Basketball: Knicks edge Warriors. B9
UConn trounces Miami. B11
Scott sparks St. John's. B11
Column: Vecsey on sports and violence.  B9
On Pro Basketball B13
Golf: New commissioner meets tests.  B9
Hockey: Devils beat Sabres, 2-1.  B9
Islanders rout Panthers, 5-1. B11
Track and Field: Everett adds stability.  B10
 
Obituaries D20-21
 
Bernard N. Fields, a leading viral researcher.  D20
Gerald Durrell, conservationist and author who prized animals.  D21
Lon Chaney, tap dancer. D21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Rescuing the rescue plan.
Wrong message on corruption.
Karl E. Meyer: Stolen art.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: The shell game.
Thomas L. Friedman: Yeltsin's economic Chechnya.
James Gollin: Everybody's nest egg.
Charles Lockwood: Born-again computers.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle D22
 
Crossword C16

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company

921 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 10, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 856 words


International 3-7
 
CUBAN REFUGEES IN LIMBO
Although the Guantanamo refugee camp at the American naval base in Cuba has not experienced riots like the one in Panama, it is filled with refugees who are desperate to resume normal lives. 1 

Calm returned after riots in refugee camps in Panama. 6
 
FACING REALITY IN BOSNIA
News analysis: The threats to withdraw peacekeepers from Bosnia should have the effect of forcing both sides to realize what it would be like to fight an all-out war without the peacekeeping buffer.  1
 
EUROPE PLEDGE ON BOSNIA
Although France and Britain have threatened to withdraw troops from Bosnia, European Union leaders agreed that it would be necessary to keep peacekeepers there to help supply civilians. 7
 
UNITY TOUCHY AT LATIN SUMMIT
President Clinton opened the meeting of Latin American leaders in Miami saying it heralded a new era of cooperation, but officials conceded it was hard to achieve agreement on some tough issues.  6
 
ULSTER TALKS BEGIN
The political wing of the Irish Republican Army and Britain met for the first time in exploratory talks that are designed to lead to a political settlement of the violence in Northern Ireland. 3
 
PRIZE IN OSLO, PRESSURE AT HOME
The Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Israel and the Palestinian leader went to Oslo to receive the Nobel Peace Prize on Saturday, but both sides left touchy political situations at home. 4
 
Syria indicated willingness to resume the Mideast peace talks. 4
 
China ordered nationwide inspections after a major fire. 3
 
Giza Journal: Urban sprawl causes more suffering for the Sphinx. 4
 
National 8-12, 30
 
SURGEON GENERAL RESIGNS
The White House forced the resignation of Joycelyn Elders, whose views about drugs and sex made her a target of conservatives.  1
 
ESPY INVESTIGATION EXPANDS
The inquiry into the departing Agriculture Secretary has expanded to examine the operations of Tyson Foods, the Arkansas poultry empire with ties to the Clintons.  1
 
COMMUTER PLANES RESTRICTED
The F.A.A. banned two models of propeller airplanes from flying in conditions where ice is likely to build up on their wings.  1
 
A transcript revealed the final seconds of USAir Flight 427.  10
 
E.P.A. RETHINKS EMISSION RULES
The Environmental Protection Agency is considering changes to make auto emissions inspections less burdensome on car owners.  8
 
COURT TO HEAR DISTRICTING CASE
The Supreme Court accepted a Louisiana voting rights case that raises crucial questions about the role of race in legislative districting.  8
 
MORE MONEY FOR U.S. TROOPS
The Pentagon announced it would cut $7.7 billion in new weapons over six years to pay for increased salaries and improved living conditions for American troops.  11
 
RETHINKING HOUSE COMMITTEES
House Republicans scaled back plans to reduce committee sizes but left Democrats with a problem: who to kick off the committees.  30
 
COUNTERATTACK ON BENEFITS
Labor unions and spokesmen for the elderly attacked proposals advising President Clinton on how to slow the growth of Social Security and other Government benefit programs.  30
 
Religion Journal: A priest returned to the church before dying.  12
 
Metro Digest 25
 
CARGO SHIP SINKS IN ATLANTIC
Battered by ferocious winds, with crew members clinging to debris and life rafts, a Ukrainian ship sank 1,200 miles off New Jersey in the Atlantic Ocean. 1
 
TAKING A BYTE OUT OF THE BUDGET
As the City Council and Mayor wrangle over control of the budget, the Comptroller has reprogrammed six city computers to implement all the cuts both sides want. 1
 
Business Digest 39
 
Your Money 37-38
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-19
 
Theater: "Suddenly Last Summer." 13
 
Music: Oslo Philharmonic.  13
 
Music: Victoria Williams.  13
 
Dance: Buglisi/Foreman troupe.  16
 
Sports 32-36
 
Baseball: Mantle's name surfaces in memorabilia investigation.  33
 
Basketball: Knicks fall to the Hawks, 89-85, in Atlanta.  33
 
Nets, a team in turmoil, try to iron things out.  34
 
Lopez getting the attention for unbeaten St. John's.  35
 
High School Report.  32
 
Columns: Rhoden on Charlie Ward's Heisman Trophy year.  33
 
Football: A playoff atmosphere for today's Jets-Lions game.  33
 
Soccer: Virginia edges Rutgers to reach N.C.A.A. final.  35
 
Obituaries 52
 
Enrique Lister, an anti-Fascist general in the Spanish Civil War.
 
Adda Bozeman Barkhuus, an expert in international relations.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials
 
Rescue mission in Bosnia.
 
Dr. Elders's untimely candor.
 
Personal prayer is not illegal.
 
A break on legislative secrecy.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: The good mother.
 
Russell Baker: Newt's pal Warbucks.
 
Bruce Ackerman: Gingrich vs. the Constitution.
 
Keith Spicer: Propaganda for peace.
 
Emily Kelton: Brown, Bowdoin, Brandeis and Prozac.
 
Neediest Cases 26
 
Chronicle 24
 
Bridge 19
 
Crossword 18

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

922 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

November 5, 1994, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Working with the enemy; International aid workers become unwilling accomplices in Rwanda's warfare

BYLINE: DAVE TODD; SOUTHAM NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA

Five months after the civil war in Rwanda, extremist remnants of the former government's defeated army are reassembling in UN refugee camps, aid groups say, preparing to resume the conflict that killed up to a million people this year.
Next week in Geneva, UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali will convene an extraordinary meeting of humanitarian aid agencies to try to come to grips with the possible resumption of the war.
Many international agencies are threatening to abandon their Rwandan relief efforts within the next few days if they do not get sufficient armed protection while performing their humanitarian duty. 
The immediate challenge is to decide whether UN peacekeepers - or even peacemaking forces - should be dispatched to the Rwandan cross- border relief camps in Zaire.
The UN High Commission for Refugees and more than 70 non- governmental organizations from Canada, the United States and Western Europe are trying to help from 600,000 to two million people survive.
The reason for the vast disparity in refugee population estimates, UN officials said yesterday, is that Hutu tribal militias terrorizing the camps in northeastern Zaire have such a stranglehold that foreign aid groups are unable even to determine the scale of the crisis they confront.
On Thursday, CARE Canada and 15 other major international relief and development agencies demanded that the United Nations act to ensure the safety of both refugees and relief workers in the most critical area, around Goma, Zaire.
CARE-Canada abandoned the vast Katale refugee camp last month because of the threat to its personnel from armed thugs who insist that they decide who among the estimated 200,000 refugees may receive food and medical attention.
"Aid workers are increasingly outraged that they are becoming unwilling accomplices (of the Hutu militias)," warns the open letter, issued from Goma.
"Living and working conditions for refugees and aid workers in the camps are becoming unacceptably dangerous," while the relief operation itself is described as patently "unsustainable."
The armed groups dictating conditions in the camps refuse to let the refugees go home to Rwanda, rendering them "hostages".
Among other measures, the international community wants all weapons removed from the camps and a census taken.
n The Security Council voted unanimously yesterday to end the UN peacekeeping operation in Somalia by March 31, exactly two years after it began, the Associated Press reported from the United Nations. Months of open clan warfare have stymied UN efforts to rebuild the country.
The resolution noted that Somali leaders have failed to provide security for the humanitarian mission in a country devastated by famine and anarchy.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
CanWest Global Communications Corp.
All Rights Reserved

923 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 16, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
The Fear Of Refugees

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

Three years after World War II, most governments of the world had realized that the issues of refugees and asylum were critical to the safety of nations, the purposes of the war and to what had come to be called human rights.
In Europe were camps still filled with persons "displaced" by German devastation or fear of falling into the hands of the Soviet Army. In Asia millions of Hindus and Muslims were killing and being killed crossing through India and Pakistan, sliced apart by partition. 
 On Dec. 10, 1948, the 56 members of the U.N. met in Flushing, Queens, shivering in a mangy former skating rink while the organization hunted frantically for a permanent American headquarters.
In those days, presidents and kings picked important fruit to represent them at the U.N. General Assembly. Secretary of State George Marshall headed the U.S. delegation; near him was John Foster Dulles. The delegate who spoke to the issue was Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Stalin sent Andrei Y. Vyshinsky, his personal people-scythe. Jawaharlal Nehru sent his sister, Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, graceful as bamboo, twice as strong.
The document before them was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All who voted for it said that to violate it would forever be like violating the U.N. charter.
After Article 13 was passed -- declaring everyone's right to leave his country at will -- Article 14 was approved:
"Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution."
The article excepted those who committed non-political crimes. For the overall declaration all members voted aye except eight abstainers -- the Soviet bloc and South Africa.
For the U.S. it was not a problem. Separated from refugees by oceans and disinterest, Washington scanned the lists, reaching in for a few with world-class physics achievements.
Later, U.S. administrations did show attention, political and compassionate. They gave asylum to Soviet Jews, other Soviet dissidents and some allies from South Vietnam.
But asylum was still something remote. We never really understood that most asylum-seekers could not show up equipped with passports, visas, or affidavits by police back home that said yes, they were indeed persecuting the refugees.
Annoying, paperless people like that still arrive from far away. Inscrutable Chinese prefer sickening for months, even dying, in filthy cargo boats to staying home having fun in the new Chinese Communist wonderland. Instead of using them as TV commercials for America, we slam them into jail, long and tight.
And now, drenched, starving Caribbean refugees impolitely try to leap into our own sunny neighborhoods -- right where we once loved to conga around carrying signs saying: "Love you, Latin neighbor."
Fidel Castro taught us that over there is now over here. America stood straight: Cubans who could get here were taken in. Look around: Cuban refugees, like so many others, not only got jobs but created others.
But now there is a growing American antagonism toward immigrants, including refugees: hordes of them will take our jobs. Refugees, of specified colors, always are counted by the horde, sometimes the wave.
President Clinton played into that. He is no xenophobe or racist. But he has a problem about refugees, as about some other human rights matters: constancy deficiency.
This trait made for the weird performance in the Caribbean. When Mr. Castro tested him by letting Cubans set out in rafts, Mr. Clinton "forced" Mr. Castro to keep them home -- thus giving Fidel a terrific chuckle and simultaneously tearing up Articles 13 and 14.
On Haitian refugees, one day Mr. Clinton said let them in, the next sent orders to pick them up, send them back, or to Panama, or Guantanamo, anywhere, just away.
If Mr. Clinton had remained constant on refugees, the Haitian "generals" might have believed long ago that when he said something he meant that specific something. And with a better Clinton constancy record more Americans might understand that he has a good case for invasion as a last resort.
But no protests grip America about Washington's strange fear and minginess toward boat people. Articles 13 and 14 are replaced by that grand old slogan: Pull up the gangplank, Jack, I'm aboard. Is that the signal flag the President wants America to fly on his tour?

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

925 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 7, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Which Haiti Policy?

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

Give them this. This White House team knows how to upstage a Presidential trip. When Mr. Clinton was in Europe for D-Day observances, all eyes were on North Korea. Now, as he visits Poland, comes news that commando units of the United States Army and Navy have been practicing a takeover of Haiti's ports and airfields.
It is hard to believe that the Pentagon's willingness to discuss these "secret" maneuvers is not part of a plan to flush Gen. Raoul Cedras and his henchmen out of Haiti. That is a worthy goal, but the timing is amateurish and the underlying message is troubling. Washington and the United Nations have only recently gotten serious about enforcing meaningful economic sanctions. These need to be given a chance to produce political results. And a new refugee initiative unveiled Tuesday at least temporarily relieves the political pressure from that direction. 
 After months of vacillating from one policy to another, America faces the troubling prospect that Mr. Clinton is drifting into using troops in Haiti because he wants to compensate for other policy embarrassments and does not have a better idea. Armed force is a notoriously poor tool for solving political problems. Even if U.S. forces, as expected, were to make quick work of General Cedras and his crew, does Washington really want responsibility for enforcing law and order in a volatile, revenge-minded land?
Meanwhile, for Haitian refugees it is now America if by land, Panama if by sea. Under the Clinton Administration's newest refugee policy, the next 10,000 boat people qualifying for asylum will be sent to Panama. Only those who qualify in Haiti will be eligible for resettlement in the U.S.
The new policy promises larger numbers of people safe haven from terror and persecution; but it continues to discriminate against Haitians, denying qualified refugees the right to resettlement in the U.S. enjoyed by politically more popular groups.
The amended policy comes less than two months after the Administration ditched the despicable practice it inherited from the Bush Administration of escorting would-be refugees back to Haiti with no chance to explain the dangers that spurred their flight. Instead, new processing centers were opened in the Caribbean to evaluate refugee claims, about a third of which were found to have merit.
Predictably, that big policy shift encouraged many more Haitians to take to the seas, hoping to qualify for resettlement in the U.S. More boats brought more drownings. The increase also threatened to overwhelm the Caribbean facilities and re-ignited fears in Florida of a large influx of Haitians.
As it amends that policy now to bar qualified boat people from the U.S., the Administration still offers sanctuary from danger, meeting its minimal moral and legal obligations. Yet if people continue to flee at present rates, the 10,000 slots in Panama could be filled within two weeks.
Meanwhile, the new policy has one big defect. It subjects Haitians to discriminatory treatment because of their race and their lack of the powerful friends who have facilitated resettlement for comparably large groups of other nationalities. Some half a million Cuban refugees, for example, have been resettled in the U.S. since Fidel Castro came to power. More than 100,000 people have been admitted from the former Soviet Union since 1980 alone. Haitians, in contrast, have long been treated as an unwanted burden, even though many who do get in have achieved economic success. It is only very recently, after the Congressional black caucus and Randall Robinson took up their cause, that Washington's policies have begun to bend.
The Clinton Administration deserves credit for ending summary returns in May. Its new policy maintains that substantial achievement. But the Administration has done the right thing in a way that still reeks of discrimination. It thus invites criticism from all sides rather than the credit it could have gained for upholding the American principle of sanctuary for all in desperate need. And now it adds the confusion of a lurch toward military adventure without enough thought about what might come after the victory parades.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company

926 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 10, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Stoked by Ethnic Conflict, Refugee Numbers Swell

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 9

The spread of ethnic conflict since the end of the cold war has pushed the number of refugees to 44 million people, or more than one in every 130 inhabitants of the globe, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported today.
The number of people qualifying as refugees because they have been driven across an international frontier has climbed steadily from 2.5 million in 1970 to 19.7 million today, taking into account the recent mass exodus from the tiny African state of Burundi. In addition, roughly 24 million people have been forced into exile within their own countries. 
 The figures were presented by the High Commissioner, Sadako Ogata, in a report titled "The State of the World's Refugees -- the Challenge of Protection."
 
Intervention for Prevention
 The increase occurred despite the return of some 2.4 million refugees to their countries of origin during 1992.
"The massive number of people on the move has weakened international solidarity and endangered the time honored tradition of granting asylum to those in genuine need of protection," the report says. "The traditional system of protecting refugees has come dangerously close to breakdown."
The crisis is forcing the refugee agency to expand its mandate to help not just refugees forced across frontiers but also internally displaced people to prevent their becoming refugees.
While insisting on refugees' right to asylum in foreign countries, Mrs. Ogata said that preventing people from becoming refugees lies in the "realms of peaceful resolution of conflict, respect for human rights, economic development, stable participatory government, a fair and independent judiciary and tolerance for diversity."
But the agency, which expects to spend $1.3 billion on the care and protection of refugees this year, says that political solutions cannot substitute for helping those who need assistance.
 
Iran Tops List
 In particular, Mrs. Ogata warned that Security Council trade sanctions against such countries as Iraq and parts of the former Yugoslavia are exacerbating the plight of the people.
Asia still has the largest number of refugees with some 7.2 million last year, although that figure is down from 8.6 million in 1991. Africa follows with 5.4 million refugees, while Europe is now in third place with 3.6 million, largely a result of the fighting in the Balkans. The number of refugees in Latin America, mainly the result of the civil wars in Central America, has dropped below 1 million.
Iran is currently granting asylum to the largest number of refugees in the world, a total of 4.1 million, including 2.9 million Afghans and 1.2 million dissident Iraqi Kurds and Shiite Muslims. It is followed by Pakistan with 1.6 million Afghans and Malawi, with about 1 million refugees fleeing the civil war in neighboring Mozambique.
The report highlights the growing reluctance of industrialized countries to accept refugees, listing Austria, Canada, Germany, the United States and Britain among countries that are tightening asylum laws.
 
Germany Feels Effects
 In 1983, only 100,000 people asked for asylum in Western Europe, North America, Australia and Japan. But by 1992 the number had risen to 800,000. Over the same period the number of asylum-seekers arriving in Western Europe climbed from 30,000 a year to over 680,000. Germany has been the most seriously affected, with the number of asylum seekers rising from 121,000 in 1989 to 438,000 in 1992. Although Bonn is tightening its asylum laws, Germany remains the industrial country with the most refugees, providing asylum to 827,000 at the end of 1992. So far the numbers of refugees to Western Europe from the East have been lower than expected.
 In the United States the total number of refugees declined slightly, falling from 482,000 in 1991 to 473,000 last year.
The report says that the majority of asylum seekers are refused refugee status, though most manage to stay on illegally or under special dispensations. Only 20 percent of asylum-seekers were accepted by European Community countries in 1991, but about 80 percent remained in those states.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Across Border" tracks number of refugees forced from their countries sinc 1976. (Source: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

928 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

July 24, 1993, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Is Canada seeking to join 'Fortress Europe' club?

BYLINE: ALLAN THOMPSON; TORONTO STAR

SECTION: WEEKLY REVIEW; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: TORONTO

Walls that are going up around "Fortress Europe" to deter people seeking asylum could soon encircle North America. Governments say they have to work together to deal with a wave of migrants, and keeping many of them out is the only way to be able to keep providing asylum for those who really need protection.
"There is a limit to what we can afford," said Andre Juneau, the federal Immigration Department's chief of policy.
Public Security Minister Doug Lewis, whose portfolio includes Immigration, said Canada wants to impose new, more stringent immigration rules similar to those that have been adopted by Western European countries. 
The 12 states of the European Community are signatories to the 1990 Dublin Convention, which is based on the principle that all asylum claims be heard in the first country the claimant reaches. The convention does not deal with the fact that methods for determining who is a refugee vary wildly from country to country.
Lewis said he wants Canada to sign a parallel accord to the Dublin Convention.
"It's a move that would make sense for us," he said in an interview this week. It would mean, among other things, that Canada would be able to send back to Europe refugee claimants who spent time there before travelling to Canada.
Canada and the U.S. have already signed a memorandum of understanding that emulates the Dublin accord. The deal would allow Canada to turn away refugee claimants who arrive by way of the U.S.
Critics of the deal say it doesn't take into account the differences between the Canadian and American refugee-determination systems.
Others argue that implicit in the proposed Canada-U.S. refugee deal is the desire to link up with European conventions.
Refugee advocates in North America and Europe fear such a deal would erode the right to seek asylum by those who feel persecuted - a right enshrined in United Nations conventions and numerous human- rights accords.
The advocates say they recognize countries must co-operate to weed out unfounded claims and distinguish between people who want a better life and those who fear persecution. But they worry that genuine refugees are being turned away without a hearing.
They accuse industrialized countries of wangling their way out of international commitments with a web of secretive, intergovernmental "asylum-sharing" agreements, deals that ultimately aim to keep out asylum-seekers.
"It's all a very secret, fast-moving process," said Fronnie Biesma of the Dutch Refugee Council, part of the European Consultation on Refugees and Exiles.
"The only thing they're trying to agree on is how to keep people out. It's really a way to ignore the Geneva Conventions and keep people outside the asylum procedure," she said in a telephone interview from Amsterdam.
"It essentially means the North is saying it would prefer that southern refugees remain in the South," said Professor James Hathaway of Osgoode Hall Law School.
Hathaway says that under the guise of "harmonization," European governments are effectively renouncing their commitment to offering asylum.
"I don't think that's consistent with Canadian values and we shouldn't be a part of that," Hathaway said.
The next step, refugee advocates fear, is for North America and Europe to formally join forces against refugee claimants. Following the passage in Canada last year of Bill C-86, the immigration minister can sign such agreements without a vote in Parliament or public debate.
On paper at least, the countries of Western Europe, Canada and the U.S. are committed to respecting the Geneva Conventions that demand refugee status and asylum for people who have left their home countries out of fear of persecution because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group.
The drafters of the 1949 refugee conventions had in mind several million Europeans uprooted by World War II. Throughout the years of the cold war, refugees fleeing ideological "oppression" were received with open arms.
But the 1980s saw an explosion in the world's refugee population. A record 100 million people are now classed as international migrants by the United Nations Population Fund in its report The State of World Population.
Of them, 17 million are refugees and another 20 million have fled violence, drought and environmental destruction, the report says. "Migration is the visible face of social change," the report said. "It is a face often greeted with apprehension."
Critics of federal immigration policy are not moved by arguments that there is a limit to what we can afford to do for refugee claimants, says Juneau of the Immigration Department.
This year, Canada expects to give refugee status to about 25,000 people who have arrived in this country on their own. In addition to that, another 19,000 are expected to be sponsored from abroad.
If Canada were to conclude an agreement with the U.S. and join Europe's Dublin rules, it would cut down on the number of people who showed up at the border seeking refugee status, Juneau admits. That would allow the government to focus more on its programs for sponsoring refugees selected from camps abroad.
"We believe that with systems like that, we can still offer protection to those who need Canada's protection, when they can't get it somewhere else," Juneau said.
"Spontaneous arrivals are destabilizing and they cost a lot of money. It is not our objective to bring the number of asylum seekers down to zero. We don't have a numerical objective."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Doug Lewis: "makes sense for us."

Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
CanWest Global Communications Corp.
All Rights Reserved

929 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 23, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Refugee Panic Act of 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

America, true to its tradition of sheltering the oppressed, guarantees due process to all who claim asylum here. Recently, however, America has devalued that guarantee. Public anxieties about job competition and terrorists as well as plain racism have so frightened Washington that it's been intercepting shiploads of Haitians and Chinese on the high seas before they can get a fair hearing on their claims of persecution.
Now the Clinton Administration, in cooperation with senators from both parties, is about to unveil a politically driven, poorly targeted package of legal changes, tentatively called the Expedited Exclusion and Asylum Reform Act of 1993. 
 Some asylum-seekers are phony. And granting everyone due process is time-consuming. But where's the crisis? Surely not in this year's expected total of 120,000 asylum claimants, 90 percent of whom are likely to be ruled ineligible and deported.
The real crisis in U.S. asylum policy is one of poor management and scandalously inadequate resources. A shortage of asylum officers keeps the system in chronic backlog. At present, there are only 150 asylum officers in the whole U.S. By contrast, Germany has 3,000; even Sweden has 800. That shortage leaves legitimate refugees in protracted limbo and extends the period during which excludable aliens can slip unnoticed into society.
Unfortunately, the Administration's proposals focus neither on resources nor even on the largest category of asylum claimants, those already within the United States when they initiate their asylum claims. Instead, they concentrate on speeding and simplifying procedures at airports and other points of entry, adding new grounds for exclusion and restricting court review of deportation decisions.
These changes would make it easier to deport future shiploads of smuggled Chinese without having to hustle them off on Mexico, as the Clinton Administration did this month. But they would do so at the risk of repatriating people who could face persecution upon their return.
Asylum is a very different thing from immigration. Over the years, U.S. and international law have carefully and strictly defined categories of people who need protection from abusive governments or violently hostile neighbors. America, the land of liberty, has played a proud role in shaping international asylum law and has opened its arms over the years to East Europeans, Cubans, Indochinese and, more grudgingly, Central Americans.
But the record of the past two Administrations has been anything but proud. President Clinton, who once correctly characterized the Bush Administration policy of forcibly repatriating Haitians as cruel, has now outdone his predecessor in returning boat people to the countries they are trying to flee.
There's surely room for constructive streamlining of procedures -- principally by hiring and training additional asylum officers and judges and providing more adequate detention facilities. Some tightening is also needed in defining persecution under China's strict population control policies. And tougher penalties need to be imposed on smugglers and others willfully abusing the asylum system.
But there's no justification for compromising due process in the hearing of claims. As Congress deliberates the Administration's proposals, it needs to douse the panic, provide the resources, and focus on reform rather than exclusion.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

930 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 15, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Position on Aliens Contradicted by Past Deeds

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

Despite its recent declarations that Mexico will never act as an agent of American immigration policy, the Mexican Government has for years been quietly deporting undocumented aliens heading to the United States.
For at least the last three years, Congress has appropriated $350,000 a year to pay Mexico for its costs in deporting residents of third countries passing through Mexico on the way to the United States. 
 In the past, most were from Central America.
But in April a boatload of about 300 Chinese bound for San Francisco made it to an inlet near Ensenada, Mexico, where Mexican authorities found them locked in a smuggler's safe house.
 
Delayed Flight Back Home
 Using the money provided by the United States, Mexico chartered a plane to repatriate all but six of the Chinese. A United Nations official determined that the six had valid claims of political asylum.
The United States, however, refused to grant the plane landing rights to refuel in Alaska because officials feared that the Chinese would claim political asylum on American soil.
While the issue of landing rights was debated, about 100 of the Chinese escaped from a crowded hangar at the airport in Mexicali, about 80 miles northeast of Ensenada on the United States border. All but a few were caught by American officials and detained. The remaining Chinese, about 200, were returned to their homeland after the Mexican plane secured permission to refuel in Europe.
 
Rift in Diplomacy
 The quiet but rocky arrangement between the United States and Mexico was noisily thrust into the open in the last week. Mexican officials learned from American newspapers, rather than through diplomatic overtures, that the United States wanted them to accept and then deport 659 Chinese who had been intercepted at sea by the United States Coast Guard and escorted to within 60 miles of Ensenada.
It was a breach of protocol, and Mexican officials publicly took offense, defending their country's sovereignty.
"Of all the countries to ask to do this, Mexico must be the least appropriate," a senior Mexican Foreign Ministry official said. "I don't think it is Mexico's place, nor do I think anybody reasonably expects Mexico to become an arm of the U.S. immigration service."
Victor Spencer, a spokesman for the Mexican Foreign Ministry, said yesterday that the ministry had no immediate comment on its stance on accepting American financing.
American immigration officials prefer to prevent boat people from landing in the United States because once in this country they have the right to pursue claims of political asylum that can take years to resolve. Federal law and an international treaty to which the United States is a party prohibit the deportation of aliens without a hearing on their claims.
Mexico has never signed the international treaty. And advocates for refugees charge that the Mexican Government, which has historically prided itself on an open-arms policy toward refugees, has recently treated many potential applicants for asylum, particularly Central Americans, summarily, even abusively.
Moreover, these advocates have been alarmed by the agreement between the United States and Mexico. "We have been paying -- and continue to pay -- for deportations from a country that doesn't show any respect for the basic human rights of refugees," said Bill Frelick, senior policy analyst with the United States Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group based in Washington.
In addition to Mexico, the Clinton Administration has enlisted the cooperation of other foreign governments in keeping potential applicants for political asylum from reaching the United States.
In April, for instance, a boatload of Chinese bound for the United States was intercepted by the Coast Guard 200 miles off Honduras. The boat, registered in Honduras, was allowed to land in Honduras, and two lawyers from the Immigration and Naturalization Service flew there to interview the Chinese. The lawyers determined that five of them were political refugees, a former Government official deeply involved in immigration matters said, and that about 40 others had claims worth pursing.
But United Nations officials in Geneva, who had final say in the matter, determined that none of the Chinese qualified as political refugees, and Honduras returned them to China at American expense.
 
Crucial Court Ruling
 Immigration experts expect that the United States will continue to seek other countries' cooperation in helping to process and repatriate illegal aliens bound for the United States. Indeed, a new Administration policy calls for the interdiction and "redirection" of boats smuggling aliens.
The Supreme Court ruled recently that Federal and international laws prohibiting the summary return of aliens do not apply to those stopped in international waters or outside the United States. And immigration experts believe that ruling has emboldened the Administration.
Some human-rights advocates are concerned that the Government is pushing the limits of its powers in seizing and redirecting foreign vessels. The United States, through a treaty with the Haitian Government, has permission to interdict only Haitian boats.
In the latest case, a State Department official, Joseph Snyder, said one boat captain gave the Coast Guard permission to take control. Because the other boats were believed to be registered in Taiwan, the Government asked the Taiwan Government for permission to board them. Taiwan officials said they could not confirm that the boats were indeed were sailing under a Taiwanese flag "but that they had no problems with the Coast Guard boarding and inspecting them," Mr. Snyder said.
Lucas Guttentag, an immigration expert at the American Civil Liberties Union, questioned the Government's actions of the past week. "Is the U.S. Government obfuscating or blatantly violating the international law of the seas?" he asked. "This would seem to come perilously close to piracy."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

932 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 11, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Pull Up the Gangplank

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

By nightfall that day, American immigration officials had made passengers off the Golden Venture feel right at home, as if they were still in China. They put them in handcuffs, sent them to distant prisons and made sure they did not see any lawyers.
That is U.S. policy: Make an example of the ship's hungry and sodden human cargo for fleeing Communist China without the right papers and for still daring to think of asylum. Show them what's what around here, so the wretched of the world do not get any ideas America is still always open-armed to them. 
 Is President Clinton paying attention to what is being done in the name of his Government? Do Congress members who fight for human rights in China believe in those rights in America for Chinese who escape? Do Democrats really want mercies permitted under President Bush to be ended under President Clinton?
In New York, once home port for freedom, political and journalistic commentators who might have been expected to feel compassion stamped out any such foolish idea. Their reaction to the story of the Chinese hell at sea was to tighten the laws, close loopholes to liberty.
At least The New York Post came straight out, with a minimum of smarm. "Send Them Back" was the headline on its editorial. Put them in planes and send them right back; there was no word about hearings or lawyers in the newspaper now owned by one of America's most successful recent immigrants.
I thought some journalists and politicians might remember that but for the grace of a more merciful America, their own parents or grandparents would have been in handcuffs the night they arrived, on the way back to the tyrannies they fled. In those days, the people with the tired faces off the ships did not have to prove they were legally refugees, just that they would pick up hammer, broom or needle and set to work.
Perhaps some hard-nosed New Yorkers in the press and Congress might still be able to conjure up a different ship off American shores.  Call it the St. Louis, brothers and sisters. People it with Jews fleeing Germany. See if you can remember the days in June 1939 when the U. S. turned it away. The St. Louis had to sail back to Europe, where most of its passengers finally encountered the solution -- the Final Solution.
What has happened to America that we could act so coldly, with so much approval, so few protests, so hard of nose and heart?
Maybe some Americans become nervous when they see new waves of refugees. Perhaps they do remember the stories about grandparents using every trick, legal or not so very, to get into America; perhaps they would like to forget that, and the St. Louis too. Perhaps they think those who still see them as outsiders might forgive them for that offense if they are silent, or say keep these new people out. They delude themselves.
More important, Americans worry about foreign refugees arriving en masse to take their jobs. Nobody is asking for fully free immigration; I might if I thought it had a prayer.
But before we dissolve in terror of arriving hordes, Washington should give us a realistic study of how many jobs would be lost by how many refugees of what kind, how that would balance off with the taxes, sweat and creativity those people could bring to American reconstruction, and how many Americans are lining up to take jobs washing dishes in Chinatown.
As for gangsters brutalizing the refugees right here in America, here's a thought for police and elected officials around the country: Stop treating Chinatowns as if they were sealed-off foreign territory. Get in there and help free the refugees, by defeating the gangsters, as the law smashed Irish, Jewish, Italian gangs.  That is called governing.
Perhaps not all the Chinese passengers may fit the exact legal definition of refugee. Neither do all the people coming from Russia as refugees. But there is no law against letting some of them in anyway, no constitutional barrier to compassion, not for Russian Jews and not for the courageous Chinese stumbling ashore in Queens.
If that idea is too much for the hardnoses to encompass, here's another. Drop that motto about America taking in the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. Chisel an honest one in stone: Pull up the gangplank, Jack; I'm aboard.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

934 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

February 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JAN. 31-FEB. 6: Asylum in Canada;
In a Landmark Change, Refugee Status May Be Given to Persecuted Women

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

Last week a young Saudi Arabian woman who had tried to travel alone, drive a car and go without a veil in her native country won asylum in Canada in a landmark change of policy.
Canadian immigration officials laughed at the woman when she first requested refugee status 21 months ago, based on her fears of persecution as an outspoken opponent of Saudi discrimination against women. 
 There certainly was nothing in the official guidelines to give her any hope. Two immigration board members, both male, ruled that her treatment was within the law of Saudi Arabia and did not represent persecution.
Bowing to human rights groups, women's groups and others, the Canadian Government said it will revise its guidelines and consider granting refugee status to women fleeing state-sanctioned abuses based on gender, including domestic violence. Neither Europe nor the United States recognizes sex-based persecution as a rationale for asylum in and of itself, and Canada, which has a long tradition of humanitarian assistance, may now be leading the world.
Still, even Canada may have a long way to go to right an immigration system that many consider sexist. An estimated 80 percent of the world's refugees are women and children. Yet two-thirds of those Canada accepts are male.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

935 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigrant Attitude Starts in Washington;
A Vital Distinction

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

To the Editor:
In "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13), you document the strong anti-immigrant sentiments of many Americans. Statements you quote show a public failure to differentiate between immigrants and refugees. 
 Immigrants come to the United States by choice. The United States is free to set any restrictions it may choose on how many and what type of immigrants to admit. Nearly all legal immigrants must possess skills that benefit the United States or be a close relative of a United States citizen or permanent resident. The numbers of each class of immigrants are limited by quotas; many aliens must wait years for an immigrant visa.
Applicants who are criminals, security risks, health risks or likely to require public assistance are among those denied entry under some 29 exclusion grounds. To exclude more, the United States would have to separate husbands from wives and mothers from their minor children or turn away skilled foreigners coming to fill positions for which United States employers have failed to recruit American workers.
Refugees are by definition unable to return to their countries because of a real threat to life or liberty, based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a social group. Unlike immigrants, refugees have no country to return to. A refugee must demonstrate a greater fear of persecution than the general population of his country. The fear might arise from an act such as speaking out against a dictator.
The United States is not free to exclude or deport refugees arbitrarily. As a signatory to the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, the United States is bound by international law to afford protections to this most vulnerable group, including the right to apply for asylum.
America's treatment of refugees before the 1967 protocol and the adoption of our present asylum laws in 1980 was nothing to be proud of. The strongest argument against restricting refugees occurred during World War II, when public sentiment opposed admission of European Jews fleeing Nazi persecution. In "Calculated Kindness," Gil Loescher and John A. Scanlon report that only 5 percent of those polled shortly after the news of the Holocaust emerged favored admitting Jewish refugees, and temporary admission of 982 predominantly Jewish refugees from Eastern Europe stirred Congressional opposition and angry editorials. This small group was interned in an upstate New York camp until 1947.
United States lawmakers must keep immigration and refugee policies distinct, and abide by our legal and moral obligations in excluding the refugees from any restrictionist debate.
 
JEFFREY S. CHASE
Co-chairman, Asylum and Refugee
Committee, American Immigration
Lawyers Assn., New York Chapter
New York, Dec. 26, 1992

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company

936 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 22, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CANADA TIGHTENS IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 18

Long considered a model of generosity in granting asylum to the world's persecuted, Canada is making its immigration procedures more restrictive in the biggest change in Canadian immigration law in 16 years.
After a long period of economic hard times, and with unemployment well over 10 percent, the new law responds to a decline in Canadian tolerance toward immigrants, among other reasons, because they are seen as competitors in the labor force. 
 The law, which received final approval on Thursday, has drawn criticism from refugee and civil liberties groups. Asylum approvals have been on the decline, from 76 percent of the applicants in 1989 to 57 percent this year, and the law is expected to lower the rate further.
 
Still a Refuge
 But Canada's policies will still be more liberal than those of the United States. For instance, Canada has no country quotas; instead, Canada assesses applicants on the basis of professional, educational and financial backgrounds, a process that is further developed in the new law.
Howard Greenberg, chairman of the national immigration section of the Canadian Bar Association, said that under the new law, "applying to Canada will be like applying to law school: The Government will collect applications worldwide and assess them as against one another, and select the cream of the crop for processing."
The main restrictions relate to refugees. "We're concerned that this new legislation will restrict the number of people who get to Canada to make a refugee claim," said Fay Sims, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International's Canadian Section.
 
Spread of Xenophobia
 A recent survey by the Immigration Department demonstrated that Canada is not isolated from the wave of xenophobia rolling over Europe. More than 40 percent of Canadians, according to the poll, say their country admits too many immigrants. One-third say they want to "keep out people who are different from most Canadians."
But Greg James, president of the Refugee Lawyers Assocation, challenge the general perception that Canada receives more than its fair share of refugees. Thirty thousand people sought asylum in Canada last year, he said, compared with 256,000 in Germany, 46,000 in France, 45,000 in Britain, 41,000 in Switzerland, 27,000 in Austria, 27,000 in Sweden and 26,000 in Italy. According to data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the United States accepted nearly 500,000 refugee applications last year.
Some critics argue that the law is part of the positioning of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's Progressive Conservative Government for elections next year. The measure is seen as stealing thunder from the Reform Party, which has been taking votes from Tories in western Canada and which has long called for immigration curbs.
To Employment and Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt, the measure meets the "new realities" of the 1990's: according to his figures, 80 million people are on the move worldwide in search of a new homeland. He feels that many would circumvent Canada's immigration laws, if given the chance.
 
Possible Abuse of Power
 Refugee advocates have serious reservations about a provision that gives border guards the right to determine who is entitled to make a refugee claim, without any recourse for appeal.
"We're concerned about that," said Mr. James, the lawyer, "because it will be done in the context of a simple interview in which the claimant may not have counsel or a qualified person to assist him."
Since most refugees come from the United States, a high rejection rate would put a bigger burden on such centers as Vive Inc., in Buffalo, a church-funded way station for refugees from New York City. Of 234 refugees that it bedded and fed last month on their way north, nearly half were from Somalia. The Rev. John Long, Vive's director, worries that his facilities, in an old Roman Catholic school in Buffalo, will be swamped.
 
A 'Militarized Border'?
 Nancy Worsfold, executive director of the Canadian Council for Refugees, which represents about 130 church, community and organizations, said the measure could have a major impact on the border region.
It "creates the incentive to make an illegal border crossing," she said, and Canada could well respond by creating a "militarized border."
Under current law, a refugee who makes it to a border point is automatically given the right to a hearing before the Government and independent adjudicators.
According to immigration records, more than 90 percent of the refugees are initially able to show a credible basis for staying and thus qualify for a second hearing. The Government wants to change the procedure, it says, to cut costs and promote efficiency.
Powers to deport have been broadened, and deportation will be possible not only of a person engaged in illegal activities, but also of a member of any organization linked with illegal activities.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company

938 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 9, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Germany Closes the Gate

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

Engulfed by refugees and torn by violent attacks on foreigners, Germany has decided to clamp down on a frontier now entirely open to asylum-seekers. The ruling Christian Democrats and the opposition Social Democrats agreed last weekend on a tough policy that would end the refugee tide by closing the gates to newcomers from countries said to be free of repression.
Nobody can reasonably fault Germany for trying to limit and regulate a huge influx of refugees. But Chancellor Helmut Kohl and the Bonn political establishment have regrettably taken the easy way out. They would do better to set a quota on immigrants and nurture a more pluralist society by adopting a formula for citizenship based on residence rather than blood ties. 
 The new policy is an understandable but ill-considered retreat from open borders. Germany's asylum laws are the world's most liberal, allowing virtually all refugees to stay for long periods. Asylum-seekers are forbidden to work, and may linger as wards from three to five years while courts weigh their cases.
This year alone Germany will house and feed 370,000 asylum-seekers plus 173,000 "ethnic" Germans from Russia and elsewhere who obtain automatic citizenship. Germany has accepted 200,000 Yugoslav refugees; much more populous America has found room for only 1,000 Bosnians; Britain last month denied entry to 175 Bosnians stranded in Austria, even though they had sponsors in Britain.
Small wonder that Bonn has clamored for a clampdown. But Germany can be faulted for the breadth of its exclusions. Mr. Kohl has the votes to amend the Constitution and enact laws listing countries said to be free of political persecution. He is expected to include most states in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
Basing refugee policy on country of origin collides with Geneva protocols and international procedures in which asylum is granted, case by case, to any individual with a well-founded fear of persecution. Listing Romania as non-repressive would automatically bar Gypsies, whatever the evidence of persecution in Romania.
A fairer policy would speed up processing of asylum-seekers and set a reasonable quota on immigrants. The Government's claim that it lacks enough judges smacks of a lame alibi.
Equally distressing is Bonn's failure to revise an outdated naturalization law rooted in ethnicity. Under the existing system, a Turkish guest worker who has lived in Germany for 30 years and speaks German fluently is denied the citizenship automatically granted a Russian-speaking immigrant who can prove German ancestry.
What a pity Mr. Kohl finds it so hard to remind Germans how much they owe to the toil and sweat of five million resident foreigners whose presence truly made possible the German "miracle."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company

939 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 16, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Blame Croatia for Limiting Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 305 words

To the Editor:
Re "The U.N.'s Bad Example on Bosnians" (editorial, Nov. 5), which condemns Croatia for turning back Bosnian refugees with help from United Nations peacekeeping forces: 
 Don't blame Croatia! How many refugees can one country take? Croatia's population is now 20 percent to 25 percent refugees! If the United States had an equal number, it would be about 50 million people. Croatia has done more than its share to shelter people under the guidelines of the Geneva Convention on Refugees.
What about Britain? Italy? Switzerland? Belgium? France? Norway? Sweden? Canada? Australia? And of course, the United States? Are they opening their doors to the homeless and hungry? Have they made any real effort to help? Except for Germany, all other countries have responded with tokenism at best.
Western Europe, the United States and most of the world watched with apathy while Serbia destroyed the Croatian economy and seized 35 percent of its land, much of it agricultural. Is the United Nations now asking Croatia for economic suicide? How much water can you add to the soup before everyone starves? Who is offering to help Croatia pay the refugee bill? Or to rebuild its economy?
What can Croatia expect from the United Nations? Its territory has not been returned. Its key industries are destroyed. Scores of refugees fill gymnasiums, schools and deserted factories. Electricity and water service are sporadic. Hospitals lack basic necessities, such as artificial limbs for war victims. Meanwhile in Serbia, untouched by the war, the black market thrives, and everything is available, including oil!
Refugees are an international responsibility. Until the United Nations shows moral leadership, and wealthy countries do their part, don't blame Croatia!
 
ARTHUR C. MEYER
St. Louis, Nov. 5, 1992

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company

944 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 11, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Still Punishing Haitian Victims

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

Only one consistent principle seems to drive the Bush Administration's approach to Haiti: Make life harder for ordinary Haitians -- whether they are struggling to survive at home, escape by sea or keep up hope in barbed-wire refugee camps.
Has America grown so impotent or indifferent that it will not face down the thugs who hijacked Haiti's infant democracy last September? Has the lamp of liberty so dimmed that desperate Haitians now cannot be granted the same temporary safe haven offered to Cubans, Dominicans, Liberians, Kuwaitis and other uprooted peoples? 
 The Bush Administration's behavior invites the ugly conclusion that diplomacy and America's best traditions have been subordinated to an election-year determination to appease the farthest far right in Florida. It's now up to Congress to demand decency for refugees and a more determined approach to restoring democracy in Port-au-Prince.
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's seven-month rule was dangerously flawed. Father Aristide openly condoned vigilante violence and scorned the elected legislature. Still, his Government was one of the most honest and least violent Haiti has ever had, and certainly the most democratically legitimate.
A revived democracy will require new safeguards against political vendettas. That probably means stationing an international peacekeeping force in Haiti for a long transition period. But the precondition to any acceptable solution is to compel the September coup-makers to accept President Aristide's return to power.
Washington's half-hearted efforts could be taken more seriously if the Administration pressed its European allies to support economic sanctions. The present effect of the sanctions is perverse. The military regime is still getting oil, the rich can still buy luxury goods, but the rural poor are suffering new hardships.
Haitians have been fleeing their country's poverty and violence for years. The coup added new terror. The Bush Administration, even as it condemns the coup and imposes sanctions, stubbornly denies this reality to avoid its obligation to provide temporary safe haven.
In its panic over refugees, the Administration abuses principles America has struggled to uphold elsewhere. Claiming that the Haitians are mostly economic rather than political refugees, it sends them back, ignoring credible reports of reprisals against returned refugees. Refoulement, diplomats call this abhorrent practice, turning people back to face persecution. That violates human decency and international law. Yet that's what America has been doing.
Now the Administration does still worse, intercepting refugee boats as they leave Haiti. The occupants are sent, or taken back, given no chance even to seek sanctuary. Such callousness evokes the "Voyage of the Damned" of 1939, when the Roosevelt Administration turned back a ship full of Jews fleeing Hitler.
Representative John Conyers, Democrat of Michigan, has introduced legislation to halt this shameful interdiction policy. It would grant Haitians temporary safe haven until democratic rule is restored and expand refugee processing facilities. The Democratic leadership has been slow to schedule action. The bill deserves quick and wide support.
Something more important than election-year politics is at stake. Call it human decency.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company

945 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 20, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Prince Teymuraz Bagration, 79; Headed Relief Efforts for Refugees

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

Prince Teymuraz Bagration, who escaped the Russian Revolution, became a Yugoslav official in World War II, then headed international relief efforts for political refugees for 43 years, died on April 10 at his home in Manhattan.  He was 79 years old.
He died of a heart attack, his wife said. 
 Mr. Bagration was the president of the Tolstoy Foundation, a Manhattan-based agency he had worked for since 1949.
He was born in Pavlovsk, near St. Petersburg, with the full name of Prince Teymuraz Konstantinovich Bagration-Moukhransky.
Mr. Bagration (pronounced bahg-rah-tzee-OWN) descended from two houses of royalty. His father was in the Georgian dynasty, and his mother was from the Romanovs of Russia. He was a great-great-grandson of Czar Nicholas I.
Many of Mr. Bagration's relatives were killed in the Russian Revolution. After he was taken to safety in Switzerland in 1919, his family settled in Yugoslavia. There he married Catherine Ratchich, a granddaughter of the prime minister.
 
Served on Many Boards
 Upon graduating from the Royal Yugoslav Military Academy in 1935, he served for 10 years in the Light Royal Grand Artillery of the Yugoslav Army, including some combat in World War II. In the war and its aftermath, he worked for Yugoslavia with the Allies, the Hungarians, the French underground and in a legation in Switzerland and royal chancelleries in Paris and London.
Countess Alexandra Tolstoy, daughter of the novelist Leo Tolstoy, recruited Mr. Bagration to the foundation, which she had created. After serving briefly as a field director and senior representative in Beirut, he moved to New York in 1949 as a liaison. He became executive secretary, executive director and chief executive.
The foundation, which initially helped refugees of many ethnic and national groups from the Soviet Union, later expanded to serve refugees from other countries, including Tibet, Chile, Uganda and Cuba. Its offices expanded to 18 other locations across the United States and in Europe, the Middle East and South America.
Mr. Bagration was a longtime board member of CARE and the American Council of Voluntary Agencies for Foreign Service. He was also a founding member of Interaction, a coalition of 100 charitable organizations working abroad, and of the council of relief agencies that shipped food to Germany after the war.
He was an active supporter of the Synod of Bishops of the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia, as the president of the American branch of the Orthodox Palestine Society and as a member of the Georgian Eastern Orthodox Church.
His first wife died in 1946. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, the former Princess Irina Czernichew-Besobrasow.

NAME: Prince Teymuraz Bagration

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company

947 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

January 14, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Argentine Homosexual Gets Refugee Status in Canada

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 13

For the first time in Canada, a homosexual fearing persecution in his homeland because of sexual preference has been granted refugee status, under a Government decision that could have broad ramifications in North America.
The case, involving a 28-year-old Argentine named Jorge Alberto Inaudi, was decided by a panel of the Immigration and Refugee Board, an independent, quasi-judicial agency under the Minister of Immigration. Its rulings are usually final, although they can be appealed to federal courts. 
 In Argentina, the law allows the police to arrest homosexuals. Mr. Inaudi, who has been in Canada since March 1990, testified that as a homosexual he had been arrested in 1989 and early in 1990, raped and tortured by Argentina's federal police and "completely terrorized." At the time he was studying engineering at the University of Cordoba.
He said he had fled the country because he "could not tolerate this police terror," noting that "the fact they know me as a gay man and I am on file makes me very vulnerable."
 
'High Credibility'
 Michael Schelew, a Toronto immigration lawyer who took up the case for the Argentine, said his client had been able to establish "high credibility."
Sexual orientation had been used as an argument in earlier Canadian refugee cases, but prior applicants were denied refugee status because their credibility was questioned, Mr. Schelew said. "This is the first case ever examined on the merits," he said.
The decision, in effect, puts persecuted homosexuals in the same category as political leaders or others who upon repatriation might face life-threatening situations.
Nicholas Rizza, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International in New York, said Canada was "affirming that asylum claims should be based on human rights needs and not on political or foreign policy considerations or any biases that the receiving country may have."
 
Precedents in Europe
 Comparable decisions have been made over the last decade by immigration authorities in Germany and the Netherlands, but lawyers and academics here said this was the first time the definition of a refugee as someone facing reprisals because of sexual orientation had crossed the Atlantic.
Rebecca Cook, a law professor at the University of Toronto and director of its international human rights program, said she expected the decision to affect refugee cases in the United States.
"They would have to consider it very carefully to see whether similar grounds apply to similarly persecuted people who apply to the U.S.," she said.
In his arguments before the Canadian panel, Mr. Schelew pointed to the German and Dutch cases to bolster his arguments. Future asylum cases in the United States, Professor Cook noted, will now be able to cite a Canadian precedent as well.
Professor Cook said the decision might also "cause Argentines to think twice about discriminating against homosexual people."
 
Ruling From the Bench
 The panel consisted of two hearing judges, Ethel Teitelbaum and Larry Colle. A ruling was made from the bench, but a written opinion has still to be handed down.
In determining refugee status, the United States, Canada and the European countries are all bound by the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees.
Under this formulation, a refugee is someone who "owing to a well-founded fear of persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable, or is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country."
Mr. Schelew argued successfully that Mr. Inaudi, as a homosexual, was part of a persecuted "social group."
But he emphasized that the case did not suddenly mean that Canada would become a haven for all homosexuals who claimed refugee status. "You have to be able to show persecution, not harassment," he said.
Reflecting a heightened concern for human rights, Canada has taken other steps recently to improve social conditions for homosexuals. It is about to end a policy of barring homosexuals from joining the armed forces and has moved to allow conjugal rights for homosexual prisoners.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company

948 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 15, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Peace-Weary Iraqis Flee for Jordan, to Rest or to Head West

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Aug. 14

The 34-year-old Iraqi Christian had a close family, good friends, a Ph.D. and a well-paying engineering job in Iraq.
But when Baghdad lifted travel restrictions on Iraqis in May, for the first time in nearly a decade, he decided like thousands of others to risk it all: he headed to Jordan in search of a scarce visa to the West and a new start in life, far from the hardship of postwar Iraq. 
 "We are fed up with wars," he said. "We want a better life." Like many newly arrived Iraqis, he said bitterly that he had spent nearly a decade in the army, first in the eight-year Iran-Iraq war and then in the Persian Gulf war.
Like others, he would not give his name for fear of reprisals by the Iraqi authorities against relatives in Iraq.
Since reaching Amman a month ago, the Iraqi said, he has lived in two rooms with nine others, hoping that relatives in Europe will help him get a visa before his money runs out. He said he was determined not to go back.
Officials say that 130,000 Iraqis have come to Jordan since the war, but that most have left; about 20,000 remain.
Many Iraqis come simply to unwind from the war and conditions at home, to stock up on cheaper food and medicine, or to gain access to international phone service to make their first calls to relatives abroad since communications were knocked out in the gulf war.
"They are coming here, settling down, waiting to find out what the situation in Iraq will be like" and whether economic sanctions on Iraq will be eased, said Wahil Aljabari, co-owner of Abdun Real Estate, which like other real estate agencies here has been flooded by requests for rentals.
Most of the Iraqis, particularly Assyrians, Chaldeans and other Christians who have relatives abroad, have flocked to Western embassies in search of entry to favored destinations like the United States, Canada or West Europe.
Others wind up at the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. About 1,500 have sought refugee status, said the office's head, Carl Von Seth; 110 have qualified.
For some, it is the last hope of starting a new life. A 32-year-old Assyrian Christian who says he deserted the Iraqi Army during the Iran-Iraq war and helped smuggle others to Iran was turned down for refugee status.
But he shows up at the United Nations office most days, hoping officials will reconsider because he has a family to support and it too afraid of arrest to return to Iraq. "I don't know what I can do," he said, "where I can go."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company

952 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 12, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

One Sign of Our Times: World's Refugee Flood

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1760 words

DATELINE: GENEVA

Fifteen million men, women and children are biding their time outside their countries, often in great deprivation, internationally recognized as refugees.
Officials concerned with the problems of uprooted people believe these refugees to be only part of one of the overriding problems of this age.
Thorvald Stoltenberg, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, sees those who have been granted refugee status as the formally acknowledged segment of a worldwide mass movement of the deprived toward more prosperous regions.
Official and nonofficial specialists the world over share his perception.
 
Asylum Requests Grow Swiftly
Increasingly, such newcomers seek the protection of refugee status to legitimize their stay, despite efforts by governments to limit asylum requests. 
Applications to Europe, the United States and Canada, the traditional asylum-granting regions, have risen from 25,000 in 1973 to 600,000 this year, according to estimates. That does not include migrants living short of legality in parts of the world.
The situation now is similar in ways to the great refugee upheavals of World War II. John A. Scanlan, an Indiana University Law School professor who is an authority on the subject, said that a State Department report in June 1945 estimated the total of refugees at 33 million to 43 million. He said that by the end of 1948, the total had dropped more than half, to somewhere between 16 million and 18 million.
In recent years, countries have used various measures to thwart applications for asylum, like the United States policy of turning back Haitian boat people while they are still at sea.
Roger P. Winter, director of the United States Committee for Refugees, said in an interview in Washington that of 22,000 Haitians intercepted by the Coast Guard since 1981, only 6 had been allowed to proceed to port.
Officials of the High Commissioner's agency said that immigration officials in Western Europe often search airliners before allowing passengers to get off, and turn back potential asylum seekers before they can apply. Sometimes, the officials go to countries likely to produce refugees and sit next to airline employees at check-in counters to deny boarding passes to people suspected of wanting asylum. Who Is a True Refugee? The stream of migrants is blurring established definitions of who is a refugee and casts suspicion over the motives of those who claim asylum to escape violence or persecution in their own countries.
Mr. Stoltenberg said such suspiciousness was wrong because morally the motivation of people fleeing poverty was equally valid.
''The problem is poverty,'' said Mr. Stoltenberg, who is 59 years old and a former Minister of Defense and Foreign Affair in Norway as well as a longtime leader of the Labor Party. ''The majority of the world live in deep poverty.
''People will say: 'Why should this happen now? After all, we have had poverty since historic times.' They forget that we have had two revolutions.
''First, there is the information revolution. People now, even if they are very poor, know how people live in other parts of the world.
''The other is the transport revolution. It is much easier than before to be transported over long distances. We cannot hide away anymore. You can't hide away from the world.''
 
Boat People Symbolize Plight
Throughout a 90-minute interview at his agency's headquarters, the High Commissioner singled out the controversy over the plight of Vietnamese boat people in Hong Kong as characterizing the complexities of the problem.
It encapsulates the grave questions posed by the mass movements, and illustrates the divisions provoked among those who receive appeals for asylum and the dilemma confronted by those who are entrusted with the care of the uprooted.
''The Hong Kong situation is a symbol of what might face us all over the world,'' Mr. Stoltenberg said.
About 55,000 Vietnamese are confined in camps intentionally kept at minimum survival level by the British colonial authorities to deter further arrivals. ''People are living on shelves,'' said the High Commissioner.
In a screening started by Britain in 1988, which broke its 13-year pattern of automatically granting refugee status to fleeing Vietnamese, most boat people have been labeled ''economic migrants,'' meaning they fled not persecution but poverty.
 
Forcible Repatriation
Under an agreement reached by all concerned countries under the High Commissioner's auspices last year, those ''screened out'' are to be returned to Vietnam.
That assent by the organization charged with being the advocate for refugees has provoked internal debate in the agency and nongovernmental refugee organizations. If voluntary returns do not resolve the problem, forcible repatriation, for which no date was set, was implictly agreed to.
About 4,000 Vietnamese have gone back of their free will and 51 were deported in November. Forced returns were then suspended because Vietnam and the United States, in rare agreement, raised strenuous objections.
The issue has led to intense controversy, as Britain and the Southeast Asian nations that are the refugee boats' first ports of call demand forced return.
Malaysia, Thailand and other countries of ''first asylum'' have pushed most new refugee boats back out to sea. They and Britain demand that the United States either accept for asylum all Vietnamese refugees or drop its opposition to forcible return.
 
Political Refugees Favored
''The usual principle is that those who are political refugees get asylum, those who are not have to go back,'' the High Commissioner said.
Outlining the controversy over whether that should apply in Hong Kong, he continued: ''I try to get consensus, because if I don't manage that, the alternative is rather gloomy. It will be breakdown of 'first asylum,' and it would mean drowning of tens, hundreds, maybe more people.''
The High Commissioner said that his organization was formally responsible only for those who are granted refugee status. ''But at the same time, I do fully respect those who flee their countries because of poverty, because it may be more dangerous to go back to poverty than to political persecution,'' he said.
Nonetheless, he said, to safeguard the possibility of finding asylum for refugees, repatriation is necessary. He said his office monitored the safety of those who had returned and provided economic assistance to the communities from which they had come to stimulate people not to leave.
 
'Psychologically Filled Up'
That is outside his agency's formal mandate, he said, but if there is no repatriation of migrants declared illegal, the world's readiness to grant asylum to recognized political refugees would break down. He said potential asylum countries were not necessarily ''physically filled up but psychologically filled up.''
Refugee officials and representatives of nongovernmental organizations devoted to the problem agree with the High Commissioner's view that the sense of being ''filled up'' has led to increasing restriction on the part of Western Governments. ''Most governments feel they are on the verge of losing control,'' Mr. Stoltenberg said. ''I definitely fear a Fortress Europe.'' Dennis McNamara, until recently deputy director of the High Commissioner's International Protection Division, wrote in an article soon to be published in Refugees, the agency's monthly, that in seeking to limit the flow of potential asylum-seekers, Governments have introduced measures that ''often ignore the crucial distinction between refugees or asylum-seekers and ordinary migrants'' and endanger the principle of refugee protection.
He listed strict advance visa requirements and heavy penalties for airlines that transport people without evidence of approved entry at their destinations. As an example, Mr. McNamara said such practices had greatly curtailed the movement to Europe of Tamils seeking refuge from the civil war in Sri Lanka.
 
Aftermath of World War II
Emphasizing that the number of present and potential uprooted people far exceeded the 15 million under his care, the High Commissioner said that even the 15 million for the most part no longer fit the definition on which his organization's mandate, dating to 1951 and expanded in 1967, is based.
It was intended to fit the refugees of the aftermath of World War II and the subsequent takeover of Eastern and Central Europe by the Soviet Union.
''In 1951, there was a limited group of people that needed to be helped, and they all came from the same environment,'' he said, noting their largely European background that fitted them readily into Western countries of asylum. ''It was relatively easy to be nice and kind. Today, it is a global issue.''
Much of the emphasis in the High Commissioner's tasks has shifted to assuring temporary asylum and feeding and housing vast groups more than protecting individual rights and helping refugees to find resettlement.
''There are millions outside their countries without prospect, hope or desire for a resettlement,'' said Court Robinson of the United States committee. ''They are offered no prospect of resettlement and none of going home.''
The biggest group, even allowing for what is believed to be inflated numbers, consists of 3.2 million Afghans in Pakistan and 2.3 million in Iran. #4.4 Million African Refugees Civil strife has produced 4.4 million refugees in Africa. The largest single group is 820,000 from Mozambique who have found asylum in Malawi, one of the world's poorest nations.
Mr. Stoltenberg said the Horn of Africa, which he considers the most intractable problem region, showed ''the trends of our time.'' He said, ''We don't have wars between states any longer, but we have 38 wars within states.''
As a result, 685,000 Ethiopians are reported to have taken refuge in Sudan, 384,000 Sudanese and 324,000 Somalians in Ethiopia, and 600,000 Ethiopians in Somalia. Most of those figures are widely held to be exaggerated.
About a million refugees have been resettled in the United States, 447,000 in Canada and 822,000 in Europe. Those statistics do not include people who have become citizens of their new countries or asylum-seekers. In Latin America, 1.2 million have been resettled.
''I am convinced that we will have a future with much more movement of people,'' the High Commissioner said. ''There is no doubt. That is a part of the future that we have shaped. My worry is that we will not be able to cope with those who flee from poverty.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Of the 15 million people worldwide who are recognized as refugees by the United Nations, about 55,000 are Vietnamese boat people confined by the British authorities in subsistence-level camps in Hong Kong. A boatful of refugees arrived in Hong Kong last month. (Associated Press); Thorvald Stoltenberg, the U.N.
High Commissioner for Refugees, sees those who have been granted refugee status as the formally acknowledged segment of a mass movement of the deprived toward more prosperous regions. (Associated Press)

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company

955 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 22, 1989, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clamor in the East;
Number of Poles and Hungarians Admitted as Refugees Will Be Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

The United States will sharply curtail the admission of Poles and Hungarians as refugees because most of them no longer have any reason to fear persecution in their homelands, Administration officials said today.
Officials from the National Security Council and the White House outlined their plans at a meeting Monday with Polish-American and Hungarian-American groups. The Administration is expected to announce the changes later this week.
Nancy Bearg Dyke of the National Security Council staff told representatives of the ethnic organizations that under the new policy, ''we will not consider any Poles or Hungarians for the refugee resettlement program unless they have relatives in the United States,'' face immediate threats to their lives or have exceptionally strong ties to this country, according to three people who were at the meeting. 
Ordinarily, applicants who demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution can be admitted to the United States even if they do not have relatives here. By requiring such criteria, the Administration is, in effect, establishing a stricter standard for Poles and Hungarians.
The likely effect is to bar refugee status for at least 19,000 of the 20,000 Poles and Hungarians who have already filed applications at American embassies and consulates in Western Europe, American officials said. They said that perhaps 1,000 people with family or other ties to the United States would be interviewed and that some would qualify for refugee status.
 
This Is a Major Change'
Ted L. Kontek, founder of the Friends of Solidarity, in Washington, said, ''This is a major change, and it was very poorly received by ethnic groups represented at the meeting.''
Poles and Hungarians could seek visas to come to the United States as regular legal immigrants, rather than refugees, but most would have to wait several years because of the backlog of applications.
The new policy resembles one adopted earlier this year to limit the admission of Soviet refugees, but it is much more restrictive.
The Roman Catholic Church and Polish-American groups say that at least 100,000 Poles are spread through Western Europe and are potential refugees but have not registered with the United States Government and therefore have little chance of coming here.
Dawn T. Calabia of the United States Catholic Conference, who attended the White House meeting, said, ''Because of Government changes at the top in Poland and Hungary, the Adminstration seems to assume that nobody from those countries is a refugee.'' Federal law defines a refugee as a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group. Under Justice Department guidelines, the high priority category includes current and former political prisoners and ''refugees in immediate danger of loss of life.''
Gerald Coyle, acting chief of staff at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said: ''Conditions in Poland and Hungary have markedly improved. Most Poles and Hungarians leaving their countries of origin and seeking asylum in Western Europe and North America are unlikely to have very substantive claims to U.S. refugee status.''
 
Financial Constraints
Administration officials acknowledged that the new policy had been prompted, in part, by financial constraints. They say they do not have enough money to finance resettlement of the 125,000 refugees who could be admitted to the United States under the worldwide ceiling set by President Bush for the current fiscal year. Of that number, 50,000 places are for the Soviet Union and 6,500 are for Eastern Europe.
The Polish American Congress, the Hungarian Reform Federation of America and other groups denounced the proposed policy. In Poland, they said, Communists still control the police, the militia, security forces and many local government offices, and people are still harassed for their political views and activities.
''We welcome Poland's progress toward a free and democratic society,'' Mr. Kontek said. ''But based on evidence collected by Solidarity's own human rights commission, we are convinced that human rights violations and persecution of political activists continue.''
Myra Lenard, executive director of the Polish American Congress, who also attended the meeting, said: ''It will take years for the system to change. People in some provinces of Poland still feel the brunt of discrimination at the hands of Communist Party members.''
In Congressional testimony on Oct. 11, Richard Schifter, the Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, reported that ''there are no political prisoners'' in Hungary, and he said the authorities there generally allowed freedom of speech, religion and association. But ''a secret police with a long history of violations of privacy is still in place,'' he said.
George Dozsa, vice president of the Hungarian Reform Federation of America, said the new restrictions on refugee admissions were ''unfair to Hungarians in Western Europe who have been waiting for several years'' to come to the United States.
Administration officials said some of the places denied to Poles and Hungarians might be made available to other Eastern Europeans, like Rumanians or Bulgarians, but would not be offered to Soviet refugees.
In the last eight years, 33,060 Poles and 5,459 Hungarians have come to the United States as refugees. In the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, there were 3,607 from Poland and 1,075 from Hungary.
 
High-Priority Claims
About 20,000 Poles and Hungarians in Western Europe have filed refugee applications with the United States Government and are waiting to be interviewed. American officials estimate that only 1,000, who have relatives here or other high-priority claims, will be interviewed under the new policy.
Any of the 1,000 who could not qualify for refugee status by showing ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' would be allowed to come to the United States ''on parole'' if they could get an affidavit from someone here promising financial support. The other 19,000 will not be interviewed.
American officials said Poles in West Germany, Italy, Greece and Austria might decide voluntarily to return to Poland, with the help of international organizations.
Polish-Americans said they feared that Poles living in Western Europe might come under heavy pressure to return to Poland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of a sign outside the Czechoslovak Embassy in Warsaw (AP) (pg. A15)

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

956 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 15, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
Who Are the Refugees, And Who's Going to Pay?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

IN 1980, when Congress established a comprehensive policy on refugees, there was widespread agreement that the Federal Government should pay for their resettlement because the decision to admit them was made entirely by Federal officials. But that consensus is coming under severe strain as the Federal Government cuts payments for refugees' health, education and welfare expenses.
State officials say they can no longer guarantee that the refugee resettlement program will be as successful as it has been for more than a decade. And it has been successful, producing high school valedictorians, college graduates, taxpayers and hundreds of entrepreneurs in such places as Orange County, Calif., and Arlington County, Va. 
''The majority of refugees currently being resettled have much greater needs than those refugees resettled in the past,'' said Ron Spendal, the Oregon state refugee coordinator, who serves as a spokesman for the National Governors Association on the issue.
''The first wave of refugees who came out of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were the doctors, lawyers, politicians and military leaders,'' Mr. Spendal said. ''They were highly educated, often spoke English and were easily assimilated. The refugees coming out of Southeast Asia now are farmers and fishermen with much less education, few vocational skills and little English.''
Many of the new Soviet Jewish emigres are well-educated by Soviet standards. But that does not mean it is easy for them to find jobs. Soviet doctors, for example, may need to be retrained as X-ray technicians or physical therapists.
Since 1975, about 1.3 million people have entered the United States as refugees, according to the State Department. Of that total, more than 857,000 were from Indochina. In the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, the Bush Administration plans to admit 125,000 refugees, including 50,000 from the Soviet Union, 6,500 from Eastern Europe, 51,500 from East and Southeast Asia, 6,500 from the Near East and South Asia, 3,000 from Africa and 3,500 from Latin America.
The number of refugees is set annually by the President after consultation with Congress. Federal law does not specify the criteria, except to say the President should weigh ''humanitarian concerns'' and ''the national interest.'' Fiscal constraints limit admissions, even as political, ethnic and religious groups lobby for more.
The quotas are completely separate from those for regular immigrants, who get visas on the basis of family ties or job skills. Under the Refugee Act of 1980, a refugee is a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution.''
A principal goal of the law is to help refugees achieve economic self-sufficiency quickly. The Federal Government and the states provide services including medical assistance, job training and instruction in the English language. Most refugees arrive with no financial resources.
 
Waning Federal Funds
From early 1980 through March of 1981, the Federal Government reimbursed the states for all cash and medical assistance given to refugees. Starting in April 1981, the Federal Government limited such payments to a refugee's first 36 months in the United States. In March 1986, Washington cut the reimbursement period to 31 months, and in February 1988 to 24 months.
For the current fiscal year, President Bush proposed to cut the reimbursement period to 15 months. Now Congress is providing money for only 12 months. While planning to admit 125,000 refugees, Mr. Bush acknowledged that his budget would pay for the resettlement of only 84,000, at an average cost of $6,300 each. He did not say where the extra money might be found.
Philip A. Holman, acting director of the Federal Office of Refugee Resettlement, in the Department of Health and Human Services, said the cutbacks did not affect refugees because they were entitled to the same cash and medical benefits. The main difference, he said, is that the states pay a larger share.
Walter Barnes, chief of refugee programs in the California Department of Social Services, said: ''These cuts show the inability or unwillingness of Congress and the Administration to meet the commitments laid out in the Refugee Act of 1980. The constant eating away at resources is, I'm afraid, going to eat away public support for the refugee program.''
 
Destination: California
California took 45 percent of the 76,391 refugees who came to the United States in the fiscal year 1988. New York, with 10 percent, accounted for the next largest share, followed by Florida, Massachusetts and Texas.
Experts warn that the cuts in assistance may increase welfare dependency rates by depriving newcomers of the aid they need to become productive workers. Already the rates are substantial: 52 percent of refugees who have been in the United States for less than two years are receiving some form of cash assistance. (Rates ranged from 14 percent for Poles to 40 percent for Soviet refugees and more than 60 percent for Afghans.) Stephen Moore, an economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said: ''As with immigrants generally, refugees tend to be strong contributors to the U.S. economy. They have low incomes and high rates of dependency in their initial years in this country. But after 5 to 10 years, their earnings increase substantially.''
Tax data show that Indochinese refugees who arrived in 1975 had incomes slightly higher than the national median by 1986, the Department of Health and Human Services said.
In view of such data, some members of Congress say that refugees should be required to pay back, after some years, a portion of the money spent on their resettlement. By taking that step, said Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, ''we could take in more refugees.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicaraguan applicants for refugee status being interviewed by officials in Miami (Matrix/Alex Quesada); graph of U.S. ceilings on refugee admissions by region of origin for fiscal 1990 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

959 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 12, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Bush Seeks Slight Increase in Number of Refugees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

President Bush asked Congress today for a small increase in the number of refugees who could be admitted to the United States in the coming year, but his proposed ceiling of 125,000 would exclude tens of thousands of refugees who have applied to come here.
Mr. Bush proposed no increase in the number of Eastern Europeans, despite the large number of people leaving countries in that part of the world.
The Administration is requesting money to pay for the admission of only 84,000 refugees in the fiscal year 1990, which begins in three weeks. Mr. Bush did not say who, if anyone, would pay for transportation and resettlement of the others.
 
Questioning Bush's Intent
Representative Bruce A. Morrison, chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said the disparity between the proposed number of refugee admissions and the Administration's budget request made him wonder if Mr. Bush was ''really serious'' about admitting 125,000 refugees. 
In addition, Mr. Morrison, a Connecticut Democrat, said: ''The world has changed dramatically in Eastern Europe. But this proposal for refugee admissions reflects an attitude of business as usual.''
Mr. Bush's plans are set forth in a report titled ''Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 1990,'' which will be the subject of at least four Congressional hearings later this week.
The report comes at a time when the number of refugees around the world has reached a record level of 14 million and many countries have adopted more restrictive admissions policies.
The Administration said it planned to admit 6,500 refugees from Eastern Europe, the same number allowed to come this year. A coalition of private voluntary organizations involved in refugee resettlement work has recommended the admission of 20,000 Eastern European refugees in the coming year.
The ceiling for Soviet refugee admissions, 43,500 this year, would rise to 50,000 under Mr. Bush's proposal. But the United States Government would pay for only 40,000, leaving private groups to pay for the rest.
Congress has appropriated money to pay for all 43,500 this year, so the Federal financial commitment would actually decline in 1990 under the Administration proposal.
Under the Refugee Act of 1980, the President, in consultation with Congress, sets an annual limit on the number of refugees who will be admitted to the United States. The number for the current fiscal year is 116,500.
Administration officials confirmed today that the State Department and the Justice Department were planning major changes in the review of refugee applications from Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians. Most Jews and Pentecostals leaving the Soviet Union have done so on Israeli visas; until recently, there was no alternative for those wishing to leave. Many traveled to Vienna and Rome, where their applications were reviewed by American immigration officers.
Under the Administration plan, the United States would, for the first time, rule on most Soviet refugee applications in Moscow. It would not review applications outside Moscow for any people who left the Soviet Union on Israeli visas issued after a certain date. The date could be as early as Sept. 30.  After that date, Soviet applicants for Israeli visas would be told that they should apply to the American Embassy in Moscow if their ultimate destination was the United States. American officials would assume that Soviet citizens holding Israeli visas issued after Sept. 30 wanted to go to Israel.
Administration officials said that Soviet refugees waiting in Moscow, Vienna or Rome with visas issued on or before Sept. 30 could still come to the United States if they met other requirements.
In its report to Congress, the Administration said the Near East and South Asia had ''the largest concentrations of refugees and displaced persons in the world: five million Afghans, four million Palestinians, one million Iranians, nearly 100,000 Iraqis.''
But the Administration proposed to reduce the number of refugees from this region to 6,500 in 1990. The number this year was 7,000.
The Administration wants to increase admissions of African refugees, to 3,000 in 1990 from 2,000 this year.
For Latin America and the Caribbean, Mr. Bush proposed to keep the refugee ceiling at its current level, 3,500. Three thousand places are meant for Cuban political prisoners and their relatives. That leaves 500 places for the thousands who have fled Nicaragua and El Salvador.
Mr. Bush's plan continues to emphasize the resettlement of Indochinese refugees. Since 1975, the United States has admitted 857,000 Indochinese, accounting for two-thirds of all refugees admitted to this country in that period.
The Administration proposes to admit 51,500 refugees from East Asia in the coming year, up from the 50,000 authorized this year. Twenty-five thousand Indochinese, mostly Vietnamese and Laotians, would come to the United States from Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong and other places where they have found temporary asylum. The other 26,500 would come directly from Vietnam, including Vietnamese jailed for political offenses because they once worked for the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

960 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 5, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Sri Lankan Refugees In India Return Home

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 4

About 39,000 Sri Lankan Tamil refugees have returned to their homes from southern India in the last year and a half, Indian Government officials and relief workers in Sri Lanka said today.
The last two groups, about 600 people, arrived in Sri Lanka over two days last week. Their return virtually empties the official centers set up for them in India's southern state of Tamil Nadu, where as many as 100,000 Tamil-speaking Sri Lankans fled during fighting from 1983 to 1987. At least 8,000 people have died in the war betweeen Tamil guerrillas and the Sri Lankan armed forces.
The Tamils were to be resettled in Sri Lanka's newly created Northeast Province by the Colombo office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, officials said.
The refugees' safe return is expected to affect the claims of other Tamils fighting deportation from Europe, the United States and Canada, who argue that they would be endangered if sent home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

961 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

January 22, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
Should Every Emigre Really Be Equal Under the Law?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

CONGRESS did away with quotas based on national origin when it overhauled the immigration law in 1965. And in 1980 it abolished the presumption that anyone fleeing Communism was a refugee. But experience in the last few months shows that it is much easier to write an evenhanded law than to carry it out in the face of political pressures reflecting special concern for particular groups of emigres.
The issues sound legalistic, but they generate impassioned debate because of what they involve: freedom, the reunification of families scattered around the world and the opportunity to live in the United States. In setting refugee policy, American officials wrestle with an endless series of problems requiring difficult choices. 
The subject of Soviet emigres reflects the complexities. For decades, the United States has been demanding that the Soviet authorities permit their citizens to leave the country. Washington was happy to take all the Soviet citizens who gained permission to come here.
But in the last year, American policy has succeeded beyond the dreams of any American official. Moscow is allowing so many people to leave that it now seems the United States cannot accommodate them all within its refugee quota. After setting the 1989 quota at 18,000 from the Soviet Union, President Reagan increased the number shortly before leaving office to 25,000, mainly by reducing the quota for Southeast Asian refugees. And even that will not be enough; American officials estimate that 50,000 Soviet citizens will apply to come here as refugees this year. Mr. Reagan could have increased the Soviet quota without reducing the allocation for any other part of the world, but that would have required additional funds for the resettlement of refugees, and the Reagan Administration did not want to ask Congress for the money.
At the same time, the United States has concluded that some Soviet applicants do not qualify for refugee status because they cannot demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in the Soviet Union. That finding enrages some Jewish groups, which assert that virtually all Soviet Jews still face persecution on account of their religion.
 
Comparing the Merits
State Department officials say they do not like to compare one country with another because each has a distinctive identity and history. But in deciding how many refugees to admit from each part of the world, the United States must compare the merits of their claims because neither the Federal budget nor public opinion would permit an unlimited increase in the number of refugees admitted to this country.
The United States has always been a nation of immigrants, and refugees are, in one sense, a legacy of American political and military intervention around the world.
Indochinese refugees do not have a powerful lobby in Washington at this time, but the United States has strong reasons to take many of them. Some used to work for the United States or for the old Government of South Vietnam and have been political prisoners. Hundreds of thousands of Indochinese refugees have found a temporary haven in countries of ''first asylum'' like Thailand and Malaysia. But those countries offered shelter only after receiving assurances that the refugees would eventually be resettled in the United States and other Western countries. The United States contends that some of the emigres are economic migrants, not genuine political refugees - a distinction made with increasing frequency in recent years.
The Reagan Administration also felt a special obligation to some refugees in Central America. Mr. Reagan assured Honduras last year that the United States would accept responsibility for thousands of Nicaraguan guerrillas living in Honduran camps. Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker 3d said last week, ''We cannot and we must not abandon'' the contras. Some in the State Department and Congress predict that eventually most of the contras and their relatives will find a home in the United States. That prospect infuriates some liberals like Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, who sees the problem as a result of Reagan Administration policy in Central America.
In the last few months, immigration officials have reported an increase in the number of would-be refugees from Central America, especially Nicaragua. But officials in Miami, which has welcomed Hispanic immigrants for three decades and has been the destination for most Nicaraguan migrants, say they cannot cope with the latest wave.
The Bush Administration will be considering a proposal by State Department and immigration officials under which Congress would establish a new category of immigrant. The proposal would provide visas for 20,000 to 30,000 aliens whose admission was deemed to be in the ''foreign policy interest'' of the United States.
The proposal would, in effect, move away from the principle established in 1965 and reaffirmed in 1980 that the United States should not favor specific nationalities, but should employ uniform worldwide standards in deciding who qualifies as an immigrant or refugee.
Mr. Bush said earlier this month that he would ''take a hard new look'' at immigration policy, and, he added in an understatement, ''There are no easy answers.''
 
CHANGING TIDES
Refugees admitted to the United States (fiscal years)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 



Eastern
Soviet
Latin
Middle East/

Africa
Asia
Europe
Union
America
South Asia
1975
0
135,000
1,947
6,211
3,000
0
1976
0
15,000
1,756
7,450
3,000
0
1977
0
7,000
1,755
8,191
3,000
0
1978
0
20,574
2,245
10,688
3,000
0
1979
0
76,521
3,393
24,449
7,000
0
1980
955
163,799
5,025
28,444
6,662
2,231
1981
2,119
131,139
6,704
13,444
2,017
3,829
1982
3,326
73,522
10,780
2,756
602
6,369
1983
2,648
39,408
12,083
1,409
668
5,465
1984
2,747
51,960
10,285
715
160
5,246
1985
1,953
49,970
9,350
640
138
5,994
1986
1,315
45,454
8,713
787
173
5,998
1987
1,994
40,112
8,606
3,694
315
10,107
1988
1,588
35,015
7,818
20,421
2,497
8,415

 
(Source: State Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company

962 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 19, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Who's a Refugee?

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

Change in the Soviet Union and turmoil in Latin America now conjoin to torment the American conscience. Each year, this country generously admits thousands of persecuted foreigners. But there are many more refugees than this country can handle and the Government perpetually faces the vexing problem: Who are legitimate refugees, and which of them should be admitted? 
Fairness ought to be the main consideration. But often, fairness collides with the desire to respond to a highly visible plight - as is demonstrated by recent decisions that seem to favor the admission of refugees from the Soviet Union while restricting entry for those from Central America. There is probably no sure way to avoid such collisions, but there are rule changes that could soften them.
Refugees constitute only a fraction of all foreigners the U.S. accepts each year (see chart). Even so, with 12 million refugees around the world, standards for choice are needed. The 1980 Refugee Act requires a showing of ''persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution.'' It establishes an annual number, allocated by region, and the number is also affected by available funds.
For 1989, Congress appropriated enough to give 68,500 refugees benefits for up to 31 months. To accommodate 90,000 refugees in 1990, benefits will stop after 24 months. The new refugee allotments anticipate 24,500 refugees from Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. But even more than that wish to come, as a result of the new Soviet policy of openness, particularly Soviet Jews and Armenians.
That raises two tormenting questions: Can all of them demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution? And even if they can, on what fair basis can they be given slots and benefits that might otherwise go to Latin Americans, or Cambodians?
Attorney General Thornburgh's answer, and there may be no better one, is to bend the rules. The law gives him discretionary ''parole'' authority to deal with special cases. He has decided to use it to admit up to 2,000 additional Soviets a month for several months. As parolees, they will get no social service funds, but at least they will be admitted.
Still, why bend the rules for some foreigners and not others? The answer is partly history, partly definition. Prior to the 1980 Refugee Act, parole was routinely used to admit foreigners fleeing persecution, mostly from Communist regimes. The potential entrants in the new Soviet wave may not conform exactly to the persecution definition, but neither are they merely ''economic'' refugees seeking more money and opportunity.
Immigration officials still seek to discourage those who would come here solely for economic reasons. That's why the I.N.S. now wants undocumented aliens from Central America to demonstrate that they are likely to qualify for political asylum before allowing them to work and travel in the U.S.
America ought to discourage economic refugees yet accommodate those who need political refuge or a temporary safe haven. One step toward that goal would be to increase the total number of refugees admissible. Another would be to create another standard for entry, less demanding than the political refugee standard but more compelling than the desire for economic improvement.
Even with such refinements, there probably can never be more than rough and ready justice on such questions. Politics, foreign policy and genuine emergencies will always intrude. But if America must err in deciding how many people deserve refuge in this country, its history counsels erring on the side of more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the refugee ratio (source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

964 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 30, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Vietnam and Laos Finally Join Talks on Refugees

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 19, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Oct. 29

Vietnam and Laos took part this week in international talks on the problems of Indochinese refugees, whose number has grown this year as more Vietnamese flee by boat to neighboring Southeast Asian countries.
The two days of meetings, which ended Friday, were termed ''informal consultations'' in preparation for an international conference on Indochinese refugees that is expected to be held in the spring of 1989, perhaps in Australia.
The last such conference was held in 1979, after Vietnam's political unification and invasion of Cambodia prompted a mass exodus.
The talks here were held under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and were attended by 17 governments and a representative of the European Community. Besides Vietnam and Laos, they included the six members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, which has been promoting new solutions for the refugee problem, and the resettlement countries, including the United States, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Britain and Japan. 
Sergio Vieira de Mello, head of the High Commissioner's bureau for Asia and Oceania, said Friday that the ''wide participation'' and the presence of Vietnam and Laos were significant accomplishments.
He called the discussions preliminary, but termed them ''totally non-polemical, constructive, and, I daresay, friendly, which is important on an issue that is so emotionally loaded.''
There are roughly 150,000 Indochinese refugees in the camps of Southeast Asia. In Thailand alone, there are approximately 110,000 refugees, including some 13,000 Vietnamese and 77,000 Laotians. In addition, about 300,000 Cambodians, who are classified as ''displaced'' by war rather than as refugees, and thus who were not discussed here, are in camps along the Thai-Cambodian border.
Since 1975, about 1.2 million Indochinese refugees have been resettled, mainly in North America, Western Europe and the islands of the South Pacific, including Australia and New Zealand. But the willingness of most Western countries to finance and absorb more refugees has been flagging. At the same time, the number of those fleeing Vietnam has risen sharply as the economy has worsened.
Vietnam's willingness to discuss the problems caused by those who flee its hardships is new, as is Hanoi's willingness to repatriate groups of its own citizens, supposedly without punishment or prosecution, if they voluntarily agree to return.
Vietnam has promised to withdraw its troops from Cambodia by the first quarter of 1990, and has been eager to repair its relations with Asean, which groups Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines and Brunei.
 
Issue of 'Economic Migrants'
Nguyen Duy Kinh, Vietnam's chief delegate here and head of the Consular Affairs Department of the Foreign Ministry, said voluntary repatriation has been discussed with the Malaysian, Hong Kong and British authorities. But the harder problem is that of Vietnamese who are judged to be not political refugees but ''economic migrants,'' and who do not want to return.
Mr. Vieira de Mello said that as in all diplomacy, it was important to begin with progress on matters of agreement, like voluntary repatriation, before moving on to more complicated matters. He said there are about 200 Vietnamese who have indicated a willingness to return home.
He also said that the Vietnamese had the right to expect ''some limited humanitarian assistance to aid the reintegration'' of voluntary returnees, as promised by both Malaysia and by the British authorities in Hong Kong, but said such aid was discussed here only in general terms.
He said the countries involved were discussing ''a package of humanitarian undertakings and solutions'' intended to provide a comprehensive answer to the Indochinese refugee problem. There will be a second meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in early December to prepare for the international conference, which the Asean countries will propose next month before the General Assembly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

965 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 24, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

On Refugees: Generous but Clumsy

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

Secretary of State George Shultz has promised to open America's doors to more refugees next year. This is welcome news, reaffirming the nation's commitment to help those seeking asylum. But there's a catch. Because Congress has already set a ceiling on financial aid, the new refugees will receive less help getting started than did many of their predecessors. 
That may be a reasonable trade-off. Some experts argue that present benefits are more than adequate. But it also suggests a need for clearer signals between Congress and the executive branch to match resources to refugees.
There are more than 12 million refugees worldwide who face persecution if they return home. Most American assistance is aimed at resettlement efforts overseas, but thousands of refugees are admitted to the U.S. under annual allotments for various areas. These ceilings fluctuate with changing world conditions and with the funds available for medical and social service benefits after the refugees arrive.
For 1989, Congress appropriated enough to give 68,500 refugees benefits for up to 31 months. Two weeks ago, however, Secretary Shultz said that as many as 90,000 refugees could come next year. But benefits would be cut to 24 months.
The majority of the new refugees, 53,000, would come from Asia, including 25,000 from Vietnam, an increase of 16,500 over this year. The other Asians, including boat people, would come from ''first asylum'' countries like Thailand, which are losing patience as Western promises to resettle refugees go unfulfilled.
Mr. Shultz would also generously admit 24,500 refugees from Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, though there are more Soviet Jews and Armenians wishing to come here than even that ceiling can accommodate.
Mr. Shultz is sending refugees the right message. But planning would be improved if future administrations proposed ceilings in the spring. That would allow better coordination with the appropriations process and encourage consultation on how many refugees can be accommodated and how long benefits should continue. There's good will on this issue both in Congress and the executive branch. But there's a distressing lack of coordination.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

967 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Malaysia Acts to Halt Refugee Influx

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, July 9

Malaysia, concerned about a sustained increase in the number of Vietnamese boat people arriving on its east coast, is sending its Foreign Minister, Abu Hassan Omar, to Hanoi soon to urge Vietnam to stop the refugee outflow at the source.
In the first half of 1988, 8,241 boat people reached Malaysia, more than the 8,030 who arrived in all of 1987. Malaysia is, after Hong Kong, the principal destination for refugees from Vietnam.
In April, the Government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad announced that by next April it would accept no more refugees and would close the island camp on Bidong Island, where nearly 14,000 Vietnamese are awaiting resettlement in third countries. 
A Government official who asked not to be named said that Malaysia hoped that by the deadline next April it would have negotiated new agreements with the United States, Australia, Canada and countries in Western Europe to accept all the boat people that Malaysia allows to land.
 
Harsh Treatment by Thailand
In that case, the official said, Malaysia would extend its deadline. ''If not, we will have to consider the same drastic measures as our neighbors.''
Since early this year, Thailand has systematically pushed away most refugee boats nearing its shores. In the early months, this was often done without regard for the refugees' safety, and many drowned. Lately, however, foreign refugee officials here reported, greater care is being exercised.
Because of Thailand's reputation for harsh treatment and the frequency of pirate attacks off southern Thailand and northern Malaysia, the only boats that make for Thai shores are those that have been disabled by pirates or by mechanical failure.
The foreign official said that contrary to practices earlier this year, Thai navy and police boats now helped refugees to put their vessels in shape before towing them back out and pointing them southward.
The hardening of the Malaysian line parallels severe restrictions recently imposed by Hong Kong, which harbors the greatest number of boat people, about 20,000. Under Hong Kong's new policy, begun last month, only boat people who can prove they fled Vietnam because of a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' for their political or religious beliefs will be treated as genuine refugees and processed for resettlement in other countries. All others, the vast majority in Hong Kong's view, will be held for return to Vietnam.
''In 1975 to 1979 they were refugees,'' the Malaysia official said. ''Now they are illegal immigrants, what we call economic migrants. They don't leave to escape political persecution but are seeking greener pastures.''
But refugee officials said that present arrivals continue to contain the customary proportion of people connected with the former South Vietnamese Government, who are subject to political discrimination.
The distinction between ''refugees'' and ''economic migrants'' is viewed by officials in this region as a largely synthetic one, reflecting more the growing reluctance to accept refugees than a change in their character.
People with long experience with boat people also stress that it is unlikely that mere economic reasons would propel the Vietnamese to expose their lives and those of their children to the exceptionally high risks involved.
Mr. Abu Hassan is due to go to Hanoi shortly. He will not only argue Malaysia's case but also will present a resolution adopted earlier this week by the foreign ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, calling on Vietnam ''to discourage the illegal outflow of its people'' and to accept repatriation of those whom Asian countries reject as ''illegal immigrants.''
Vietnam has so far refused to accept the permanent return of emigrants, legal or illegal. International officials said such repatriations could be envisioned only if Vietnam were ready not only to accept them but also to offer firm guarantees that they would not be subjected to punishment or discrimnation. ----Hong Kong and Hanoi to Talk HONG KONG, July 9 - After ignoring or rebuffing calls for talks on Vietnamese refugees, Vietnam has issued a surprise invitation to Hong Kong and Britain to discuss the thousands of boat people coming here.
The Hong Kong Government said Friday that it would accept the invitation from Hanoi and would urge that the talks begin as soon as possible.
In the last year, Hong Kong has seen a surge in the number of boat people leaving Vietnam. The colony, which had about 8,000 refugees only a year ago, now is struggling to cope with almost 20,000. While Thailand and Malaysia have seen growing numbers of boat people as well, Hong Kong has been hardest hit.
Vietnam, facing food shortages after crop failures, has appealed for international aid, only to be told by a number of countries that it must first withdraw its troops from Cambodia and help solve the refugee problem.
Vietnam's new willingness to discuss the refugee problem was heralded earlier this week when the official news agency quoted a Vietnamese Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying his country is ''striving to stop illegal evacuees'' and ''is ready to exchange bilateral views with countries and international organizations concerned to resolve this problem.''
Hanoi also reported Hong Kong's recent decision to classify nearly all new boat people as illegal immigrants and hold them for return to Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Southeast Asia area indicating Bidong Island, Malaysia (NYT)

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

968 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 6, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Which Armenians Are Refugees?

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words

Under increasing pressure from the U.S., the Soviet Union is allowing more citizens, particularly Armenians, to emigrate. But should they, when they seek entry to the U.S., be treated as political refugees or immigrants? U.S. immigration officials must guard against blurring the distinction, lest America's will to provide refuge be eroded.
Immigration guidelines give extensive preferences to foreigners with job skills or with relatives here. But aliens who can demonstrate a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' in their homeland may seek political asylum under the Refugee Act of 1980. 
Under its emergency provisions, the Reagan Administration consulted with Congress before last week's Moscow summit meeting to increase the authorization for refugees from Eastern Europe. An additional 15,000 slots were slated for Soviet emigres, most of whom are Armenian. It was a reasonable determination: In the last eight months, nearly 9,000 Soviet citizens have applied to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow for political asylum and 5,300 have already gained entry. But some members of Congress and State Department officials now complain that not all the Armenians being admitted qualify as victims of persecution. An Immigration and Naturalization Service official admits that approval of refugee applications from Soviet Armenians has been ''virtually automatic.''
It is only fair to require that each Armenian applicant demonstrate fear of persecution. Other potential refugees, like those from El Salvador or Indochina, are carefully scrutinized, often after waiting months to be processed.
Many Armenians now leaving the Soviet Union may perfectly well qualify for refugee status and political asylum in the U.S. But those who merely seek a better standard of living should be made to qualify under existing immigration standards.
As a general rule, America's attitude toward refugees and immigrants is generous and humane. But to allow Armenians to enter as refugees when they are not will only hurt the next wave of people in need that washes against our shores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

969 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 8, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

The Budget Makes Refugee Choices Necessary

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 316 words

To the Editor:
I cannot agree more with the compassion and humanitarian purpose reflected in ''Cruel, and Needless, Choice of Refugees'' (editorial, Feb. 17), on Vietnamese refugees being turned back by Thailand, the expected upsurge of Soviet Jewish and Armenian refugees, and the State Department's consideration of reallocating some slots for Southeast Asian and other refugees to accommodate those from the Soviet Union.
Where humanitarian needs are concerned, all choices are cruel. But it is wrong to characterize such policy decisions as needless. Our problem is a lack of funding, and the essence of government is making necessary choices between competing uses of public resources.
The Administration agrees that we should meet the needs of refugee admissions from Southeast Asia and the needs of people allowed to leave the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. We must also provide relief, assistance and protection to millions of refugees in Africa, the Near East, Central America and Southeast Asia, many in life-threatening situations who never will have the chance to resettle in any third country. It is sad that the Department of State does not have an unlimited budget for these or other humanitarian purposes, compelling as they are.
In suggesting that we simply use emergency authority to raise the refugee admissions ceilings, you overlook the controlling element of budgetary resources. Refugee admissions cost money. The money for new, unpredictable admissions flows is not available. For the fiscal years 1988 and 1989, the Congressional leadership and the Administration have concluded a compact that caps the Federal budget, not excluding its humanitarian programs. This is the reality and the challenge that we confront, requiring absolutely necessary choices.
 
JONATHAN MOORE
United States Coordinator
for Refugee Affairs
  Washington, Feb. 27, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

970 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

January 11, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Groups Are Bracing to Help More Refugees on Slim Funds

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

Private American aid organizations, bracing for a substantial increase in foreign refugees seeking new homes in the United States, are being advised by the State Department that they cannot expect more money to cover rising costs.
The agencies that traditionally provide resettlement help, such as the International Rescue Committee and Church World Service, say they are already scrambling to deal with the higher costs of care and the lower purchasing power of the dollar abroad.
A major new concern is a sudden increase in the exodus from the Soviet Union of Armenians as well as Jews. Whereas 1,000 Armenians were expected in 1988, Church World Service, which provides care for most of them, reports that 1,000 are showing up monthly at the American Embassy in Moscow, and telling officials ''there are thousands more behind us.'' 
''This is an emergency,'' said Dale de Haan, director of immgration and refugee programs for Church World Service, adding that there was a backlog of 4,000 Armenians waiting for processing in Moscow. Most of those coming to the United States join families in the Los Angeles area.
Agency officials call the situation a political embarrassment for the Reagan Administration, which has hailed the relaxation of Soviet restrictions on freedom of movement as a victory.
At meetings in New York last week, State Department officials advised the refugee resettlement organizations to expect the funds available to them for the care and maintenance they provide under Government contracts to fall about $7 million to $10 million short of the estimated $120 million in refugee funds appropriated by Congress in December. This shortfall is occurring, officials of the refugee agencies said, even though caseloads are larger and expenses higher.
''It is ironical and kind of dumb that the United States had an enormous foreign policy victory in getting the Soviet Union to allow the Armenians and Jews out, and now is short of money to pay for them,'' said Carl D. Zukerman, executive vice president of Hias, the international Jewish migration agency. ''Seven or 10 million dollars is not a lot for a big foreign-policy victory. Nobody wants this to happen, not the President, Congress or the public.''
Under the catch-all appropriations bill passed Dec. 21, Congress approved $346 million in assistance for refugees worldwide. Of that total, about one-third was allocated for resettling in the United States up to 68,500 people, a ceiling fixed by the White House and Congress last September.
The larger flow of refugees from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe was not expected when this ceiling was set, said Jonathan Moore, United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs, adding, ''We need time to adjust to the new realities.''
 
Pressure to Cut Deficit
At a time when pressure to reduce the deficit is great, Administration officials argue that other governments should be persuaded to provide more help. The United States now pays for processing some refugees who are ultimately settled in other countries, and it is looking to these countries to assume a larger share of the cost.
In addition to the costs posed by the increased numbers of refugees, the United States has begun testing all arrivals for AIDS, a program that costs the Government $3.5 million.
Agency officials say the Soviet exodus is intensifying an already difficult problem.
Entry to the United States for Armenians and Jews from the Soviet Union is being expedited, but thousands of refugees from Poland, Hungary, Rumania, Czechoslavakia and Bulgaria are still waiting to be admitted.
 
Priority for Some
Because Washington pressed Moscow to lift its restrictions for those wanting to leave, agency officials say, Jews and Armenians will get priority over people who left Eastern Europe on their own, hoping to emigrate to the West.
''It has become commonplace to see a Hungarian or Polish refugee on the street, maybe a former engineer, swabbing car windshields to earn a tip,'' said Robert P. DeVecchi, executive director of the International Rescue Committee, referring to refugees who are waiting to get into the United States.
The committee, a major provider of care for new arrivals in Europe, Southeast Asia, Latin America and elsewhere, receives about $7 million to $8 million in grants and contract reimbursements from the United States, apart from other funds from United Nations agencies and private grants.
''Our resources are limited,'' said Mr. DeVecchi, ''In a sense we face triage already, having to choose between turning down an appeal for sanitary equipment for Malawi dealing with dysentery in refugee camps or the Vietnamese boat people or the starving Ethiopians. We'd be glad if the situation about the Soviet Jews and Armenians was resolved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company

971 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 13, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SOCIAL EVENTS;
New Season Under Way

BYLINE: By Robert E. Tomasson

SECTION: Section 1; Part 3, Page 83, Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

Folk Festival Benefit
 
Sept. 13 - For eight days, through Sept. 20, the New York Folk Festival will hold forth at indoor and outdoor locations in Manhattan, and on Sept. 17 in Prospect Park in Brooklyn for a children's show. The premier event of the festival, to benefit a coalition of housing groups working to help the homeless in New York, will be an 11 A.M. brunch and a 1:30 P.M. concert by Gordon Lightfoot and Tom Rush at the Penta Hotel, Seventh Avenue at 33d Street. Brunch and concert tickets, $50, from 212-807-6896 or at the door, or $20 for concert alone from Ticketmaster, 212-307-7171 or at the door.
 
 Dance and an Artist
 
 Sept. 14 - The opening of the Trisha Brown Dance Company's season at the City Center will be preceded by a 6 P.M. champagne reception and buffet on the 50th floor of the Equitable Tower, followed by a dinner at the home of the artist Robert Rauschenberg. Tickets $1,000; $500 for black-tie reception-buffet, concert and dinner; $300 for reception-buffet and concert, from 212-580-5511. 
 
 Aiding Refugees
 
 Sept.14 - Founded in 1933 to help opponents of the Nazis escape Germany, the International Rescue Committee now maintains refugee centers in Central America, Europe, Pakistan, the Sudan, Thailand and Hong Kong. A benefit dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria honoring Deputy Secretary of State John C. Whitehead starts with 6:30 P.M. cocktails. Tickets $350, from 212-679-0010.
 
 Philharmonic Opening
 
 Sept. 15 - Sir Colin Davis will conduct Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 4, with Murray Perahia as soloist, and the Brahms Symphony No. 2, at the opening-night benefit concert of the New York Philharmonic's 146th season. The festive black-tie evening at Avery Fisher Hall starts with cocktails at 6:30 followed by the concert at 8 and a dinner-dance afterward under a tent on the Lincoln Center bridge over 65th Street. Tickets $500 for reception, preferred concert seating and dinner-dance; $250 for reception, concert and dinner-dance, and $100 for reception and concert, from 212-580-8700, extension 381.
 
 Briefly Noted:
 

 
 Sept. 15 - To benefit its mobile adoption unit, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is holding a casual dinner party with Polynesian entertainment starting with cocktails at 8 at the Big Kahuna restaurant, 622 Broadway (Houston Street). Tickets $125, from 212-870-7700, extension 3221.
 
 Sept. 15 - The ninth annual Saks Fifth Avenue/USA Gala Fashion Show and Dinner-Dance to benefit several groups starts at 8 P.M. on the store's third floor. Tickets $200, from 212-940-4232.
 
 Sept. 16 - A preview of Bloomingdale's fall promotion, ''Mediterranean Odyssey,'' will be presented at a black-tie cocktail and dinner party at 8 at the store, to benefit the Institute of International Education. Tickets $200, from 212-984-5380.
 
 Sept. 17 - The Staten Island Center for Independent Living, an organization that serves the disabled, will hold an 11:30 A.M. champagne brunch at the Columbia Lyceum, 386 Clove Road in West New Brighton, S.I. Tickets $25, from 718-667-1200 or, for the deaf, TTY 718-667-0825.
 
 Sept. 17 - The Peridance Ensemble will hold a 7:30 benefit performance at the Marymount Manhattan Theater, 221 East 71st Street, followed by a reception and dinner. Tickets $115, from 212-505-0886.
 
 Sept. 17 - The East Side International Community Center, a meeting place for people from the diplomatic world and New Yorkers in varied programs for adults and children, is holding a 5:30 P.M. cocktail benefit at the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park. Tickets, $100, from 212-371-8604.
 
 Sept. 18 - The Mariners' Temple Baptist Church, 3 Henry Street at Chatham Square, will hold a 7:30 black-tie dinner-dance to raise funds to restore its 192-year-old landmark sanctuary. Tickets $35, from 212-233-0423.
 
 Mansion Party
 
 Sept. 18 - The Cooper-Hewitt Museum, which is the Smithsonian Institution's national museum of design, will hold a black-tie party from 9 P.M. to 1 A.M. to celebrate its exhibition ''Art Nouveau Bing: the Paris Style of 1900.'' Sigfried Bing was an entrepreneur in the decorative arts in Paris at that time. The festivities will take place in the ornate former Carnegie mansion on 91st Street at Fifth Avenue that houses the museum. Under the sponsorship of the museum's junior committee, the galleries will be transformed into an elegant setting evoking turn-of-the-century Paris. French foods will be served throughout the museum and in the garden. After 1, the party will move to the Surf Club, 415 East 91st Street. Tickets $75, at the door. Information: 212-860-6868.
 
 Laughs at Carnegie Hall
 
 Sept. 21 - Jackie Mason, star of the one-man Broadway smash comedy ''The World According to Me,'' will take a busman's holiday to perform ''Carnegie Hall According to Jackie Mason'' in a one-night stand at the venerable hall. There will be activities before and after the 9 o'clock performance to benefit the Carnegie Hall Society, with tickets for the evening ranging from $75 for the performance alone to $25,000 for a reception with Mr. Mason following the performance. Tickets for a 7:30 P.M. champagne reception at Carnegie Hall and the performance, $250. A 6 P.M. champagne reception at the Casino on the Park in the Essex House, followed by dinner and the performance, $1,000. Black tie. All tickets from 212-355-0356.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company

972 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 2, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

TV REVIEWS;
'DISPLACED PERSONS,' A FILM FROM AUSTRALIA

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR

SECTION: Section C; Page 26, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

ON WNYC's current weekly series ''Australian Movie of the Week,'' last week's entry, ''Crime of the Decade,'' demonstrated how social issues could be tackled Down Under with a compelling toughness that couldn't care less about balance or being ''fair.'' Tonight's presentation, at 9 on Channel 31, indicates that when it comes to contrived scripts, the Australian product is not very much different from its American made-for-television counterpart.
''Displaced Persons'' is another of those dramatic exercises featuring a group of very different people confined to a single, enclosed setting. Courtrooms and prisons are favorites. In this instance, the place is a Quarantine Station just outside Sydney. The time is November 1945. In what is described hastily as a gigantic foul-up, 14 refugees from Europe, survivors of the Nazi death camps, have ended up in Australia instead of the United States. They would all rather be in America, but there is a problem. They have been exposed to some mysterious and fatal disease, similar to typhus, and have already begun to succumb one by one. 
Officials are understandably upset about the situation. Tens of thousands of refugees are expected the following year and the average Australian is already nervous about the effect on jobs and housing. So until the nature and source of the disease can be determined, the refugees are restricted to the Quarantine Station under the supervision of a single doctor and a single nurse. Inevitably, as their ranks grow smaller, the refugees begin to unfold their stories, much to the irritation of the doctor, who finds their attitudes reeking of a superiority complex of some sort.
As it happens, the refugees represent a generous cross section of Europe: Italy, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Yugoslavia, Germany, Czechoslovakia and Poland. An unusual result, one that American television would undoubtedly shun, is that many of the characters speak in their native tongues. Subtitles in English are provided. Unfortunately, the innovations stop there. As the refugees and the medical staff get to know one another, obvious barriers fall and compassion creeps awkwardly in. There are the inevitable romantic couplings, some of them doomed. And, at regular intervals, someone is sure to observe, ''It isn't fair, is it?'' - in case we hadn't noticed.
Viewers on this end will perhaps be most intrigued with the character of a refugee called Hans, who at first claims that he is a watchmaker but then turns out to be a doctor who worked in chemical warfare for the Nazis. No sooner is that information divulged than an American representative appears to recruit the doctor for specialized work in the United States. He might be a good soldier, evidently, in the coming cold war. ''Displaced Persons,'' written by Louis Nowra, directed by Geoffrey Nottage and produced by Jan Chapman, is not without its moments of convincing details, but the overall conception gets lost in the creaking dramatic machinery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of John Orcsik

TYPE: Review

Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company

973 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 12, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WHO GETS IN, AND WHY

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL S. TEITELBAUM; Michael S. Teitelbaum is a demographer who has written extensively on immigration and refugee issues. His latest book (written with Jay M. Winter) is ''The Fear of Population Decline.''

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

CALCULATED KINDNESS Refugees and America's Half-Open Door, 1945 to the Present. By Gil Loescher and John A. Scanlan. 346 pp. New York: The Free Press. $22.50.
FEW issues have attracted more propaganda, sanctimony and ignorance than those surrounding refugees and, more generally, immigration. The goal of ''Calculated Kindness'' is to explore the rationales and politics of United States refugee policy since World War II. 
Those who appreciate political irony will be fascinated by the authors' descriptions of how 1950's cold warriors, political liberals and ethnic activists found unaccustomed common cause in promoting the liberalization of refugee admissions for Eastern Europeans. Again in the 1970's, anti-Communist supporters of the Vietnam War entered into odd coalitions with left-leaning human rights advocates in an ultimately successful political and public relations effort to promote the resettlement in the United States of some 800,000 so-called boat people from Indochina.
Although ideological and propaganda factors have long weighed heavily on United States refugee policy, this rather elementary fact seems to have escaped the attention of many recent commentators. How many are aware that, as the authors report, a study in Public Opinion Quarterly in the early 50's stated that ''Only a handful of those [East Europeans] now arriving in the West can be considered to be escaping from Communism as a political system or from actual persecution''? Instead, the study described the migrants' goals as principally those of material improvement. ''Similar conclusions,'' the authors write, ''were contained in a study prepared for the State Department'' by the Institute for Public Opinion Research.
Despite such assessments, the State Department actively encouraged defectors from the Soviet-dominated nations of Eastern Europe, deploying considerable propaganda resources through such outlets as the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe. Interestingly, this policy was viewed with great skepticism by John J. McCloy, then United States Commissioner for Germany and a bulwark of opposition to Communist expansionism. In his succinct words: ''The more defectors, the less potential resistors.''
This fundamental difference of opinion -whether the departure of political opponents represents a boon or a blow to the governments they oppose - continues to divide and confuse the politically motivated advocates who buzz around the formation of United States refugee policy. It was powerful opposition to Fidel Castro that led successive Administrations of both parties to admit ex-ceptionally large numbers of Cubans between 1959 and 1980. Yet this very same policy was embraced by Mr. Castro himself, first as a means of disposing of his political opposition. Later, in 1980, he expelled many criminals, homosexuals and mental patients to the United States.
Recently, American supporters of the left-wing insurgency against the Government of Jose Napoleon Duarte in El Salvador have advocated quasi-refugee status for the 300,000 to 500,000 Salvadorans thought to be living illegally in the United States. Meanwhile, the Salvadoran Government that many of them seek to topple has welcomed such action, on the ground that the money they send home strengthens its fight against the leftists.
The principal message of ''Calculated Kindness'' is that foreign (read anti-Communist) policy criteria have controlled United States refugee admissions and that those people (such as the authors) who favor increased refugee admissions for humanitarian reasons have done best when they developed coalitions with the anti-Communists.
A secondary message is that the formulation of United States refugee policy has been ad hoc and haphazard. For example, the principal legal basis for admission of well over a million people (mostly from Eastern Europe and Cuba) between 1956 and 1980 was the so-called parole authority of the President, an ad hoc authority thought by many to have been employed by six Presidents contrary to the intent of Congress. Yet only a few weeks after this parole authority was formally eliminated by Congress in 1980, the Carter Administration elaborated a new classification - ''Cuban-Haitian entrant'' -to admit Cubans and Haitians. GIL LOESCHER, an associate professor of government and international studies at the University of Notre Dame, and John A. Scanlan, an associate professor of law at Indiana University Law School, catalogue the activities of all the advocacy groups in copious (occasionally excessive) detail. Although the authors' personal beliefs appear to be those of liberal humanitarian advocates of increased refugee admissions from authoritarian states, they struggle mightily to restrain their biases in the interest of careful scholarship. In this they are quite successful, at least until their discussion appproaches the late 70's; unhappily, the final three chapters (on the policies of the Carter and Reagan Administrations) read a bit too much like briefs prepared by one of those advocacy groups.
Nevertheless, ''Calculated Kindness'' deserves careful reading by policy makers and nonspecialists alike. The authors are to be admired for illuminating humanitarian and political issues that are of growing concern and that occupy one of the murkiest realms of American rhetoric and politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Haitain refugees in small, wooden boat,1981

TYPE: Review

Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company

974 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 13, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE RISKS OF PROVIDING AID AND COMFORT

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

SINCE June 1984, Alejandro Gomez and his family have been living in sanctuary as refugees at the Downtown Presbyterian Church in Rochester. On May 23, Mr. Gomez , a trade union activist from El Salvador, was arrested by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service as he walked with his wife, Leticia, on Main Street and was taken to jail in Buffalo. Released on $50,000 bail, Mr. Gomez returned to the church to await an immigration hearing next month that may end in his being deported to his war-torn homeland.
The issue of sanctuary for refugees fleeing political turmoil in Central America is hitting increasingly closer to home in the Northeast. Although national attention has recently been focused on the Arizona trial of religious activists accused of smuggling aliens into the country, more than a score of churches and synagogues in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have declared themselves sanctuaries. The city councils of Rochester and Ithaca have taken similar actions, and last month the New York State Assembly passed a resolution declaring the state ''a region of sanctuary for Guatemalan and Salvadoran refugees.'' 
The issue is political, but the members of the growing regional sanctuary movement say the impulse that moves them to protest and even defy Federal immigration policy is primarily humanitarian. They complain that the Reagan Administration is not properly implementing the United States Refugee Act of 1980, which says political asylum may be granted to any refugees who can demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' at home. The critics also contend that the Administration is discriminating against refugees fleeing Central American countries friendly to the United States.
''We feel our Government is mistaken when it labels political refugees from Central America as economic,'' said Arlene Goodman, president of the congregation at Temple Beth Tikvah in Wayne, N.J., which last month voted to declare itself a sanctuary for Guatemalans and Salvadorans fleeing political violence. ''We also feel very strongly a kinship with any political refugee, since most of us here have our roots in Europe, where before World War II, millions of Jews could have been saved had the United States allowed them to enter.''
Mrs. Goodman's congregation has yet to take in a refugee family. But St. Michael's Episcopal Chapel on the Rutgers University campus in Piscataway, N.J., has been harboring the Flores family of El Salvador since mid-1984, and the Hartford Meeting of the Society of Friends opened its doors in January to a Guatemalan family headed by a former labor union organizer.
The immigration agency has responded cautiously to these calculated violations of law; significantly, immigration officials waited until Mr. Gomez was on a city street before they arrested him. ''We are not going out into churches to apprehend illegal aliens,'' said Steven Abrams, district counsel for the New York City office of the immigration agency. ''There are enough illegal aliens out in the judicial system and the workplace, and these are where our priorities lie.''
Nevertheless, sanctuary advocates have complained of what they call ''intimidation'' by the agency. For instance, State Assemblyman Jose Serrano, sponsor of the state resolution, says an immigration agency lawyer called a member of his staff and warned ''that I was committing a felony by doing what I was doing.'' Mr. Abrams said ''no such comments were made,'' though he said Mr. Serrano and others have been told that ''giving aid to illegal aliens could be construed as harboring'' and that the immigration agency will ''have to look and see what state employees are being asked to do and see if that falls under the harboring statute.''
In part because of the legal issues involved, many of the resolutions passed regionally are more general statements of solidarity with Central American refugees than pledges of resistance. The Rochester resolution, approved in May, is ''not a law in the sense that we are directing anyone to do anything,'' said one of its sponsors, Councilman Tim O. Mains. ''It is really a symbolic gesture.'' But at the same time, Mr. Mains said, ''We don't want people working for the city to go out of their way to aid, abet and assist what we consider an unfair refugee policy.''
The Federal immigration agency argues, however, that even statements of moral support send the wrong message. ''When you pass something similar to a resolution, you give tremendously false aspirations to aliens coming to New York State,'' Mr. Abrams said. ''You are telling them that once they reach here they will be given sanctuary, and in fact that is not the case. These resolutions have no weight, and if the service apprehends an illegal alien he will be prosecuted.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Guatemalan refugee family living in Hartford (NYT/Steve Miller)

Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company

975 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 8, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

No Way to Judge Refugees

BYLINE: By Joseph Nocera; Joseph Nocera is a contributing editor of the Texas Monthly and the Washington Monthly.

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

Last August, a 20-year-old Czechoslovak named Petr Klima defected to the United States. It was a daring defection, complete with a secret meeting in a West German forest and 10 days of hiding out in hotel rooms in as many different cities. Even before arriving in America, Mr. Klima applied for and received political asylum.
Mr. Klima is hardly a political activist. He is a hockey player who was a star on the national team and who within days of his defection was practicing with the Detroit Red Wings. The Red Wings arranged for his defection and are paying him a reported $2.5 million over 10 years. 
This is not to begrudge Mr. Klima his millions; given Detroit's dismal season, he probably deserves every penny. But Mr. Klima came here as a ''political'' refugee, and this raises a troubling question: how do you tell a political refugee, whose motives, as defined by the law, are ''a well-founded fear of persecution,'' from an economic refugee, who simply wants a chance at the American dream? It's an important question, because under the law, the former get in while the latter don't.
The Administration answers that question not by taking a hard look at every case but by imposing an ideological litmus test. Simply put, people like Mr. Klima who are leaving Communist countries are presumed to be political refugees, while people fleeing non-Communist countries, no matter how much they say they fear persecution, are economic refugees. Thus, in recent weeks the Administration has decided that Nicaraguans who request asylum will be treated as political refugees while refugees from El Salvador are automatically sent back - no matter how much they claim they are fleeing persecution.
Take another example: the typical Polish refugee. Recently, the Justice Department announced that it is drafting rules to make it easier for Poles and other Eastern Europeans to gain asylum, again on the premise that anyone who wishes to leave a Communist country is by definition fleeing persecution and therefore a political refugee. But are most Poles political refugees? No.
I happened to be in Vienna soon after the outlawing of Solidarity. Some 50,000 Polish refugees had flooded into the city. Most were middle class professionals and all were seeking asylum in the West. The ones I spoke to were quite blunt about their desire to make a better life for themselves, preferably in the United States, and how they hoped the imposition of martial law in Poland would allow that to happen by magically transforming them into ''political refugees.'' Most had left Poland before the crackdown. Meanwhile, most Solidarity activists - that is, the people who really were ''political refugees'' - had remained in Poland.
There is no reason to wish Poles or Nicaraguans or Czechoslovak hockey players anything but well. But surely we ought to think again about the morality of trying to base an immigration policy on the difference between economic and political motivations. A Salvadoran who told the Immigration and Naturalization Service what those Poles told me would be on the first plane back home. But people's motives are mixed. Political and economic considerations play a part when someone immigrates, and a policy that decrees otherwise is bound to be inherently unjust.
Furthermore, what makes a political emigre necessarily more desperate, and more deserving, than an economic one? Would you rather be a Pole in Poland - even with Solidarity outlawed, even with political freedoms curtailed - or an impoverished peasant in El Salvador? Ultimately, the only way to have a refugee policy that even approximates fairness is to eliminate the distinction between political and economic motives.
Traditionally, the word ''refugee'' has conjured up images of the Cuban flotilla, or the Haitian boat people, or Soviet citizens being hounded out of the country after years in the Gulag. These are images of oppression, and it has not mattered whether the oppression was political or economic. A fairer refugee policy would be rooted in the same notion: that those most deserving of refugee status should be those who are most oppressed - no matter whether it is political or economic oppression. But to make refugees pawns to ideology, as the Administration has done, mocks our national sense of justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company

976 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HUGUENOT SOCIETY OF AMERICA KEEPS HISTORY ALIVE

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 61, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

THE names from the past and the present carry a common heritage: Paul Revere. Pierre Bowdoin. John Jay. John Paul Jones. All have one thing in common - they are descended from the Huguenots who came here from France during the colonial period to enjoy religious freedom. 
Americans of all backgrounds are searching for their roots - historical, religious, familial. None are more dedicated than the 500 local members of the Huguenot Society of America, which maintains an office and a library at 122 East 58th Street in Manhattan. The society's library and the French Church of Saint-Esprit, two blocks north at 111 East 60th Street, insure a continuous Huguenot presence in New York.
To help descendants become familiar with their origins in Europe and in this country, the society recently published a 421-page book, ''Huguenot Refugees in the Settling of Colonial America,'' edited by Peter Steven Gannon.
The book includes facts about the Huguenots' French origins; their colonization failures in Brazil, Florida and North Carolina; their lives in Canada and Virginia; their efforts to establish bases in Salem, Boston, New Oxford and Narragansett; the assimilation of Huguenots on western Long Island; the significance of New Rochelle as a Huguenot settlement; their trials and tribulations in the West Indies; their privation and massacres in Maine, and New Amsterdam as a Huguenot refuge.
 
Membership Requirements
In addition, there are biographies of the editor and the officers of the society, lists of some of the Huguenot refugees by geographical areas, and an index of major geographical areas to which Huguenot refugees went in colonial America. Patricia Frech is the current president of the Society.
Those eligible for membership have to be adults ''whose religion is consonant with that of the Huguenots'' and who are lineal descendants of Huguenots who emigrated from France ''prior to the promulgation of the Edict of Toleration on Nov. 28, 1787.'' The edict guaranteed religious tolerance in France.
The Huguenots were French Protestants. At their first synod, in 1559, 15 churches were represented. At a synod two years later, more than 2,000 churches sent representatives. Later, the French monarchy, for political reasons, turned against them. As a result of economic and religious oppression, many of them fled France.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company

977 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 16, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
A 'Benefactors' Benefit Lives Up to Title

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and David W. Dunlap

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

In 1933, at the urging of Albert Einstein, the International Rescue Committee was founded to help refugees from Hitler's Germany. In 1985, it is aiding refugees from Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Iran, Poland and other countries. 
The organization has refugee camps in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and the United States. It provides medical help and food first, resettlement programs later.
All this costs money - last year more than $16 million was raised in private donations, grants and contributions from other agencies. On Friday, the organization held a benefit at the opening preview of ''Benefactors,'' at the Brooks Atkinson Theater on West 47th Street, and raised almost $40,000.
The committee currently aids 7,000 new immigrants nationwide and about 400 refugees locally, helping them find jobs, schools and places to live.
''New York has a higher concentration of political refugees than any other city except Paris,'' said Leo Cherne, an economist and the committee's chairman.
''They have the kind of drive and energy that those of us who are comfortable have lost. In the crassest economic terms, they truly enrich our society.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

978 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

November 29, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SUDANESE ORDER 3 REFUGEE AGENCIES TO LEAVE

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 265 words

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, the Sudan, Nov. 28

The Government has ordered the expulsion of three refugee resettlement agencies implicated in the airlift of Ethiopian Jews from the Sudan to Israel from 1981 to 1984, officials said today.
They are the Intergovernmental Committee on Migration, based in Geneva; the Joint Voluntary Agency, based in the United States, and the International Catholic Migration Commission, the officials said. 
Attorney General Omar Abdul-Ati issued the order on Wednesday.
The Sudan suspended the activities of the Intergovernmental Committee on Migration and all refugee resettlement through the office of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in Khartoum about 10 days ago, pending a review of resettlement policy.
The committee is the main agency coordinating resettlement of Ethiopian and Eritrean refugees in North America and Europe.
Security service documents read to a court here said the authorities suspected members of the resettlement agencies of having smuggling the Ethiopian Jews out of refugee camps in the eastern Sudan.
The court is trying former Vice President Omar el-Tayeb for treason on charges that he played a role in the airlift of 6,000 Ethiopian Jews to Israel.
The organizations have denied that smuggling of refugees was ever their official policy.
Attorney General Abdul-Ati said the Sudan would impose tighter controls on voluntary organizations and start giving them licences to operate only for fixed lengths of time.
Sudanese officials complain that relief agencies have been working without registering or informing the Government of their activities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

979 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 6, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

800 REFUGEES AT REUNION RECALL LIFE IN THE GHETTO OF SHANGHAI

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: KIAMESHA LAKE, N.Y., Sept. 5

Sonya Wiesenfeld and Erika Schlesinger were once playmates in Shanghai. So were Susie Goldfarb and Susie Bergman.
They remember taking turns playing ''princess,'' a game in which a white tablecloth served as the princess's gown and a kitchen table as the palace - the same table, in fact, that provided shelter for the children during an American bombing raid of the ghetto where they lived as refugees.
Sonya, Erika and the two Susies are all in their mid-50's now, married and with children of their own. Mrs. Schlesinger lives in Haifa, Israel. Her friends live in New York City. But this week they were like children again after seeing each other for the first time since leaving Shanghai in 1947. 
They were among 800 Jewish refugees who have gathered at the Concord Resort Hotel here this week to reminisce about days spent in the ghetto of Shanghai during World War II and to renew old friendships, in the manner of a family reunion.
And like most families the Shanghailanders, as they call themselves, are proud of their achievements. Among them are W. Michael Blumenthal, former Secretary of the Treasury under President Jimmy Carter.
Mr. Blumenthal attended the group's first reunion in Oakland, Calif., five years ago, but friends said he could not make this second reunion. However, Peter Max, the artist whose psychedelic designs became popular in the 60's, attended.
 
'Shanghai Was Our Sanctuary'
Gary Matzdorff, a 63-year-old manufacturer of leather goods, flew in from Ventura, Calif. Like others, he wore a name tag that bore his former name, Guenter Matzdorff, to help old friends remember him. He also carried a metal plaque like those that were on most of the gates surrounding the Jewish ghetto, its message a painful reminder of the past: ''Stateless refugees are prohibited to pass here without permission.''
Most of Shanghai's Jews escaped from Germany, Austria and Poland between 1938 and 1941. It was the last haven for those who had no visas. About 20,000 refugees from Europe survived Adolf Hitler's ''final solution'' in Hongkew, the American section of the International Settlement in Shanghai.
''Shanghai,'' recalled Howard Levin, ''was the one place on the globe where there were no restrictions on immigration, where no visas, affidavits or other guarantees were required.'' Mr. Levin was allowed to leave Berlin at the age of 19 in 1937 for Shanghai. Two years later, he learned that his father had died. His mother and sister died in concentration camps. Now, 69, Mr. Levin lives in New York City.
''There were wealthy Jews who bought passports into South America and Cuba,'' he said. ''You had to have family in the United States to get in after 1938. For those like us, Shanghai was our sanctuary. All that one needed was a paid passage on a ship that sailed to the International Settlement.''
The new arrivals settled in Hongkew, a part of the city abandoned by the Chinese after most of the houses had been destroyed in fighting with the Japanase.
Although the Japanese occupied a large part of the China coast, including Shanghai, Hongkew did not fall until the end of 1941. Under the Japanese, the refugees faced many restrictions. But people at the reunion said they were aware that the Japanese had resisted Nazi requests to exterminate the Jews in Hongkew.
Many of the refugees arrived in China penniless. Some found it hard to adjust to the tropical climate and contracted typhus, dysentery, beriberi, cholera and other diseases. There were 1,700 deaths in the ghetto; 31 people died in the American bombing raid on July 17, 1945.
 
Weekly Soccer Matches
Despite its poverty, the ghetto had three daily newspapers, a symphony orchestra and theater groups. The refugees opened delicatessens and sidewalk cafes. Schools, synagogues and a hospital were established.
Perhaps, one of the fondest memories to grow out of Hongkew was that of the weekly soccer matches on Sundays between the Berliners and the Viennese.
''It was a sport rivalry that was akin to that of the Yankees and the Red Sox and the Giants and the Jets,'' said Leo Meyer, a Berliner, who was known to many present as ''one of the best soccer players in Shanghai.''
For fun, the soccer rivalry was revived Wednesday afternoon on a football field near the hotel. For 45 minutes, two older, less agile teams of Berliners and Viennese fought a spirited battle. Final score: Vienna 1, Berlin, 0.
The reunion will end Friday. Today, there were pledges and promises to ''do it again,'' and ''to keep in touch.''
Trixie Wachsner of Los Angeles, whose nametag told of a time when she was Trixie Braun, was the impetus behind that first reunion in California five years go. Back then, it was just a group of four or five Shanghailanders talking about how much fun it would be to get together with the rest of the group from Shanghai.
''It took another five years for us to come together,'' she said. ''I don't know how many of us will be around in the next five years. But then, you're looking at people who know how to survive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of soccer team players (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen); photo of Erika Schlesinger (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen)

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

980 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 2, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SECOND-CLASS REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Arthur C. Helton ;
Arthur C. Helton is director of the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

In the last six months, 18 people have been indicted for their efforts to provide refuge for Central Americans seeking asylum in the United States. The people involved in this ''sanctuary movement'' - it is a grassroots effort, organized largely by church groups in the Southwest - argue that political considerations here are determining whether or not those seeking asylum are able to obtain refuge from political violence and persecution at home. Their argument has undeniable force.
The United States has traditionally proclaimed a generous and compassionate approach to refugee problems. The rhetoric has not, however, always been matched by actual accomplishments, and in practice people fleeing Communist-dominated regimes have been favored over those fleeing merely authoritarian or totalitarian regimes. 
The Refugee Act of 1980 grants refugee status to anyone seeking to enter the United States because of a ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or social standing. In theory, at least, the standard is nondiscriminatory.
In practice, however, it has been badly distorted. Our overseas admissions program, in particular, falls far short in meeting the needs of those who apply for asylum. The United States has agreed to admit up to 70,000 extra refugees in 1985 - above and beyond the normal ceiling of
 270,000. The problem lies in the Government's stipulations about where the 70,000 should come from.  In the last year, more than one million people have fled from El Salvador and Guatemala. Similar displacements have occurred in Afghanistan and Ethiopia. Yet in 1985, we will accept no more than 3,000 refugees from Latin America, 5,000 from the Middle East and 3,000 from Africa - with the remaining 59,000 coming from the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and Indochina.  Those are the official ''ceilings''; actual admissions are even more imbalanced. In 1984, for example, only 93 Salvadorans and no Guatemalans were admitted as refugees.
Still further ideological discrimination confronts those asylum seekers who manage to enter the country. In 1984, only three of 761 Guatemalan applicants (1 percent) were granted asylum; only 328 of 13,373 Salvadorans (3 percent) were. This contrasts sharply with the rates for Bulgarians (52 percent), Hungarians (28 percent) and Russians (51 percent).
Why the inequity? Consider the case of El Salvador. As a matter of foreign policy, the executive branch (which includes the immigration authorities) has every incentive to characterize the political climate in El Salvador as an improving situation - an image that would be jeopardized if we were granting asylum to large numbers of Salvadorans. A report prepared in 1982 for circulation within the Immigration and Naturalization Service conceded that only those Salvadorans with a ''classic textbook case'' have any hope of being admitted as political refugees. Frequently, even that is not enough.  All Salvadorans and Guatemalans fleeing war are not necessarily entitled to asylum under the standards of the Refugee Act. They are, however, entitled to fair and unbiased consideration of their cases. What they face, instead, is a stern and unlawful prejudgment against their claims - and in practice the overwhelming majority of them are characterized as ''economic migrants,'' regardless of their particular circumstances.  Is there a more humane alternative, short of a revision of the asylum law? A powerful argument can be made that Salvadorans and Guatemalans fleeing the arbitrary risks of war, even if not eligible for asylum, should be granted ''safe haven'' until the hostilities subside. Such protection, which could be made available through either legislation or executive action, has been offered in the past to Poles, Afghans and Nicaraguans. It should be made available across the board.  The sanctuary movement is a testament to the unfulfilled promise of the Refugee Act of 1980. The ultimate answer cannot, of course, be continued disregard for the law. Rather, the law must be applied to all in the nondiscriminatory and humane spirit in which it was written.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

981 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

March 1, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CLERICS DENOUNCE CURBS ON AIDING LATIN ALIENS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 Bitterly denouncing what they called ''scandalous policies'' of the Reagan Administration, more than 200 religious leaders today pleaded for a stop to the deportation of Salvadoran and Guatemalan aliens and the jailing of American church workers who try to shelter them.
Bishops and the presidents of denominations rubbed shoulders with a rabbi, an indicted churchwoman and people who have fled Central America, meeting in a crowded Methodist chapel across the street from the Capitol as the group tried to bring national attention to the long-simmering issue of the movement to provide sanctuary to aliens.
Reacting strongly to recent arrests of Americans who gave refugees sanctuary in the Southwest and to convictions of two sanctuary workers in Texas, the leaders contended the Government was guilty of violating United States law in returning refugees to face the threat of death in the homeland. 
 
Petitions to Congress
The group presented petitions asking Congress to investigate the Government's conduct and said the Senate would indeed hold such hearings.
Anson Franklin, a White House spokesman, said there would be no immediate comment on the religious leaders' statements.
The Reagan Administration, which strongly supports the governments of El Salvador and Guatemala, has sent thousands of refugees back to those countries on the ground that they came to the United States for economic reasons, not out of fear of persecution at home, as the aliens assert.
Administration officials defend the indictments of American church workers and the use of infiltrators with concealed tape recorders as part of their obligation to pursue people suspected of breaking laws concerning illegal aliens.
However, the church leaders said many of the refugees would appear well qualified for asylum on the 1980 Refugee Act's grounds of ''persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution'' at home.
They said it was an American's legal right, if not obligation, to protect refugees from conditions of death and terror. And they dismissed United States Government contentions that things had changed in nations such as El Salvador.
 
Skepticism on El Salvador
There may have been ''a momentary drop'' in Salvadoran assassinations and disappearances ''from thousands to hundreds,'' said the Rev. Avery Post, president of the United Church of Christ. But he added, ''Is that any comfort at all?''
The Rev. Gustav Schultz, a Lutheran Bishop from Berkeley, Calif., said, ''Morality is on our side and the law is on our side.''
Rabbi Irwin Blank, past president of the Synagogue Council of America, comparing the deportations to sending Jews back to Nazi-controlled Europe in World War II, asserted, ''The law is on the side of the sanctuary congregations.''
Bishop Francis Murphy, a Roman Catholic prelate from Baltimore, said that the Administration's ''scandalous policy is now beginning to interfere directly with the right of religious congregations to provide humanitarian aid to refugees.''
A list of signers of letters to Congressional leaders asking for investigations included 10 Roman Catholic bishops, four Episcopal bishops, 12 Lutheran bishops from several branches of the denomination, seven Methodist bishops, top officials from other Protestant denominations, the past president of the Synagogue Council of America and nine other Jewish rabbis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of ''Joel''

Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company

982 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

February 9, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FLOW OF TURKISH REFUGEES A STRAIN FOR GREECE

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: ATHENS

 Five Turks, including a woman and her child, fled Turkey recently by swimming across the icy Evros River that forms the border with northern Greece. Earlier three Turks escaped their country in a rubber boat and landed on the Greek island of Lesbos.
 They are the latest arrivals in the continuing flow of Turkish refugees seeking political asylum in Greece, and finding a place for them to move on to is proving difficult for the Athens Government.
''Resettlement is our chief problem because there is a marked slowdown in the reception of refugees,'' says Gary Perkins, the representative in Greece of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. 
After careful screening the Turkish refugees are sent to the Government- sponsored resettlement camp at Lavrion, an ancient silver mining town on the coast 40 miles south of Athens.
 
Camp Established in 1949
The Lavrion facilities were set up in 1949 to receive anti-Communist refugees from Eastern Europe. The camp now shelters mainly left-wing Turkish exiles.
The Turkish refugees began arriving in September 1981, after the armed forces seized power in Turkey, making mass arrests, particularly among leftists. Although a civilian government took over in Turkey at the end of last year, Turkish refugees continue to come now, probably more for economic reasons than political.
The traditional resettlement countries such as the United States, Canada and Australia are still open to East Europeans and Christians from the Middle East, though in smaller numbers, but these countries have let it be known that they are not interested in providing asylum for leftist Turks.
There were 3,521 refugees in Greece awaiting resettlement as of the end of September, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The largest number were Iraqis of Assyrian origin, followed by Turks and Rumanians. In the same period, 1,091 refugees found resettlement, compared to 1,483 the year before. The United States was still the largest receiver, but took fewer than before.
 
Some Are Sent Back
The best the Turkish refugees can hope for is a Convention Travel Document, which gives them the right to go to Western Euorpe. Some West European countries, however, have begun to send Turks with these travel documents back to Greece, requesting visas and imposing other limitations.
''All the refugees feel insecure until they find their final destination,'' a Greek social worker, Danae Christophorides, said the other day. ''The problem with the Turks is that most of them know they don't have a final destination.''
Mrs. Christophorides has devoted much of the past eight years to the Lavrion refugees and is their principal contact with the Greek Red Cross, which provides food and maintenance, and the supporting agencies, the Catholic International Migration Committee, the World Council of Churches and the United Nations High Commissioner's office.
Conditions at Lavrion camp are relatively good except for overcrowding, Mrs. Christophorides said, showing visitors the premises recently. The camp, which looks like an austere youth hostel, was built to hold 150 people and now houses 250, including about 200 Turks and 50 East Europeans.
 
Mansion Being Renovated
A crumbling mansion next door is being renovated to provide space for another 100 refugees and is scheduled for completion by March.
In winter, there is not much for the refugees to do at the camp, although color television, pingpong, English and Greek lessons are available. This did not matter so much when refugees were resettled in a few months time, but is more of a problem as the refugees' stays become prolonged.
Life is easier in summertime, the social worker stressed, when seasonal jobs are available either at Lavrion's port, in construction or in the surrounding vineyards, as well as in the hotels and restaurants at nearby Sounion. The beaches offer another distraction.
About 800 Turks have sought asylum in Greece since the armed forces seized power, according to Mrs. Christophorides. She estimates that about 500 of them have left for Western Europe, either with travel Documents or by irregular means.
 
Most 'Want to Go Back'
''Most of us want to go back to Turkey when real democracy is established,'' a teacher said, insisting that the recent general elections were ''not democratic.'' He pointed out tht Turks were still fleeing the country and asking for political asylum in Greece.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Christophorides said that some Turks are beginning to ask for repatriation. Six had returned to Turkey recently, she said.
''Most of them don't say why they want to go back,'' she explained. ''Clearly they're disappointed because life here is not like their dreams. One of hem told me he knew if he went back to Turkey he would sleep in jail for two years, but after that he would be free and able to find a job, which he can't do anywhere else.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company

983 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 22, 1983, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SALVADORANS TO GAIN REFUGEE STATUS

BYLINE: By BERNARD GWERTZMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 The Reagan Administration has quietly informed Congress that for the first time the United States will admit as many as 200 Salvadorans as political refugees to this country.
The decision to allow the Salvadorans to enter the United States along with refugees from Communist and right-wing dictatorships was made after extensive debate within the Administration, officials said.
Some officials, they said, argued that by admitting Salvadorans as political refugees, the Administration would be implicitly acknowledging that political persecution exists in El Salvador, despite the strong Administration backing for the Salvadoran Government.
But in the end, the State Department recommended to the Justice Department that for humanitarian reasons, the United States should accept 200 Salvadorans as political refugees in the fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1. 
The group that will be admitted will be drawn from 554 former political prisoners plus their families who were released during the summer as part of an amnesty program.
According to State Department officials, the 554 were mostly leftist or leftist sympathizers who in some cases had been imprisoned for political beliefs in El Salvador.
The El Salvador Government, after freeing the group under the amnesty, asked the Intergovernmental Committee for Migration, an international agency, for help in finding a refuge abroad for the former prisoners. It indicated that it could not guarantee their safety from right-wing reprisals, State Department officials said.
Of the 200 the Administration plans to admit, about 50 will be former prisoners and the rest members of their families, an official said. He also said that this decision does not overturn the Administration's continued refusal to grant legal status to an estimated 500,000 Salvadorans already in this country who do not want to return to El Salvador. Many are seeking legal status under the determination of ''extended voluntary departure,'' which means they cannot be deported.
But in agreeing to accept the 200 as political prisoners, the Administration has for the first time legally acknowledged that there are dangers of reprisals for at least a group of Salvadorans, an official said.
The Administration informed the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Refugees on Tuesday of the plans for refugees in the next fiscal year, including the decision on the Salvadorans.
The Salvadoran political refugees make up only a small portion of the worldwide total, officials said.
The Administration recommended - subject to Congressional consultation - that the United States admit 72,000 refugees in the 1984 fiscal year.
In the current year, there was an authorized total of 90,000, but actually only 60,000 entered the country. Of the 72,000 proposed, some 50,000 would come from Indochina, mostly Vietnamese ''boat people'' and refugees from Cambodia who are in camps in Thailand, Malaysia and elsewhere in Southeast Asia.
Another 12,000 would come from the Soviet Union and the other countries of Eastern Europe. Many of these are Poles who have been permitted to leave Poland or who were outside Poland when martial law was imposed. Another 6,000 would be admitted from the Middle East and South Asia, mostly refugees from Afghanistan and Iran. Three thousand others would be given permission to enter from Africa, and 1,000 from Latin America.
Officials said that although the political prisoners that were released in El Salvador were mostly leftist, they will be screened before being admitted.
So far, Canada has taken in 131 of the 554 former Salvadoran political prisoners, plus 159 of their relatives. Australia has taken 44 and 52 relatives. Other countries to take former prisoners are Norway, Sweden, and Belgium.
''We were approached,'' one official said, ''and after some reflection, many conservatives were dead set against taking any. They said this would leave the impression that there are refugees from El Salvador and that El Salvador does not protect its people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company

984 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 30, 1983, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Books: Saving a Few

BYLINE: By Richard F. Shepard

SECTION: Section C; Page 14, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 502 words


HAVEN. The Unknown Story of 1,000 World War II Refugees. By Ruth Gruber. 335 pages. Coward-McCann. $15.95.
IT was a token of humanity, no more than a token by the United States, which, while warring against oppressors in World War II, had refused to admit refugees by other than normal, and restrictive, immigration laws. It may have been the most cynical tokenism in light of what was happening to Jews and other victims in Europe, but it had the practical effect of bringing to America in 1944 982 survivors of the catastrophe wrought by Hitler. 
Ruth Gruber, an author who was then working as an assistant to Harold L. Ickes, the Secretary of the Interior, was sent by him to shepherd the refugees on their trip from Italy to resettlement in a camp at Oswego, N.Y. It was a strange arrangement. President Roosevelt's order permitted a thousand refugees to take temporary refuge in this country after they had promised, in writing, to return to Europe after the war. The 982 who were finally cleared consisted of 874 Jews, 73 Roman Catholics, 28 Greek Orthodox and 7 Protestants, representing 18 countries.
Miss Gruber combines the thorough knowledge of the insider with the writing skill of the professional to tell the story of this unusual footnote to history. She describes the refugees, their segregation from the returning American wounded on the ship that bore them to freedom, their wholesome, kind reception by Oswego and their frustrations at being restricted to a camp, even a benign one, that created its own hell of uncertainty because they were neither Americans nor immigrants. Even the German prisoners of war, with whom they occasionally found themselves working in local industry and whose arrival in America was certainly not dictated by quota, were more sure of who they were than were those who had fled their domination.
In this look back, Miss Gruber tries to sort out what happened. She contrasts the insensitivity of those like President Roosevelt who put politics before humanity (he might have saved millions, at least hundreds of thousands, as well as a thousand, under similar temporary arrangements, she writes), with the understanding and efforts by such as Eleanor Roosevelt and Mr. Ickes who went out of their way to help. She ponders the frustrations of older refugees behind the Oswego fence and the optimism of the younger ones who went to the local schools and assimilated American dreams.
In the end, the refugees were admitted to immigrant status and Miss Gruber writes of what became of many of them. It is a touching story, an incident of those terrible days, in which the writer has put us in the full picture and humanized it with anecdote and specific people. They were, after all, only humans, who, even in flight to freedom, harbored deep cultural and national hostilities. But, if they were not all full-time heroes, they were, in the way of humans, heroic at times that counted and, although they were victims, they each won a small victory for themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Ruth Gruber

TYPE: Review

Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company

985 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

June 24, 1983, Friday, Late City Final Edition

The Refugees Are Coming!

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

For weeks, officials in Washington have been muttering darkly about a potential tidal wave. Unless the public supports more military spending to combat troublemaking Communists in Central America, then watch out: hordes of poor refugees will start pouring in. Now, the muttering is no longer low-level or anonymous. It's coming straight from the President. 
If the flood of Southeast Asian boat people was a problem, he says, just imagine what it will be like when the ''feet people'' start marching north from Central America. That's scare-mongering, and of a contradictory sort. The surest way to avoid a refugee tide is to keep it from arising in the first place. The present Reagan policy risks creating more refugees, not fewer.
Some of the portents emanate from the Army. Three weeks ago, The Washington Post reported that an unnamed general has been warning that so many Latin Americans will flee communism that we'd need to recall some troops from Europe to seal our southern border.
The State Department's Refugee Affairs office has been ringing a similar alarm. In a paper dated May 17, H. Eugene Douglas injected figures into the fears. It estimates the refugee potential at 2.33 million. Not 2 million, not 2.5 million, but 2.33 million. Such precision means sophistication, and credibility, right? The figure, it turns out, is what you get if you make the dubious assumption that 10 percent of the region's population will take flight.
Such fanning of fears was unattractive at lower levels. But this week, President Reagan joined in. Speaking in Mississippi, he said, ''We must not listen to those who would disarm our friends and allow Central America to be turned into a string of Marxist dictatorships.  The result could be a tidal wave of refugees - and this time they'll be 'feet people' and not 'boat people' ....''
There is some basis for expecting new refugee pressure. Continuing violence has already pushed hundreds of thousands across one border or another. Mexico has just tightened its borders against Salvadorans, Guatemalans and others, using the same logic that the United States uses against illegal migrants from Mexico. An accelerating flow of migrants to this country would strain our law enforcement - and conscience.
The surest way to avoid a refugee tide is prevention, and that means caring about more than military assistance. Arms alone would, if anything, increase the number of refugees. Which side do frightened people typically take? The side of safety. The longer the combat goes on, the more people who will be scared out of their wits, homes and countries.
To shout, ''The refugees are coming!'' is neither a humane refugee policy nor a persuasive argument for Mr. Reagan's larger policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company

986 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 22, 1983, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ABOUT BOOKS AND AUTHORS

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

SECTION: Section 7; Page 46, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 637 words


EXILED IN AMERICA
REFUGEES fleeing from Central America, Cuba, Africa and Asia have dominated newspaper headlines in recent years, but memories remain vivid of the earlier exodus from Hitler's Europe. Several recent books recount that era during which a generation of scientists, writers, musicians, artists, architects and scholars fled from lands occupied or threatened by the Nazis, although the focus of each of the books is not so much the Third Reich as how well the uprooted refugees and exiles adjusted to their new surroundings.
"Exiled in Paradise" by Anthony Heilbut concentrates on German refugees artists and intellectuals in America, including Hannah Arendt, Albert Einstein, Peter F. Drucker, Kurt Weill and Lotte Lenya. "Strangers in Paradise" by John Russell Taylor is an account of both German and non-German writers and artists - including Alfred Hitchcock, Fritz Land, Thomas Mann and Aldous Huxley - who, for various reasons, began flocking to southern California from the time Hilter came to power in 1933. "Brecht in prominent exiles to California. And "The Muses Flee Hitler," essays about the experiences of European Jews and non-Jews who resettled not just in the United States but also in Britain, Canada, the Far East and South America. 
"The Muses Flee Hitler" recounts the successes of Hannah Arendt and Kurt Weill, the bitterness of composer Bela Bartok and the tragedy of the author Stefan Zweig, who committed suicide along with his wife in Brazil. (Several of Zweig's books have been published recently in the United States by Harmony Books.) "Muses" is published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, known primarily for its reference works and books on the natural sciences, American history and anthropology. The book is based on two colloquia sponsored in 1980 by the Smithsonian Insitution to honor the centennial of the birth of Albert Einstein, who became an American citizen in 1940.
 
THE SUCCESS OF 'DUNE'
FRANK HERBERT'S "God Emperor of Dune," number nine on the Times mass market best-seller list, is that rare bookt hat has become a best seller in hard-cover, trade paperback and now mass market paperback.  Moreover, it was published in all three formats by the Putnam Publishing Group.
The hard-cover edition became a best seller soon after its publication by G. P. PUtnam's Sons in the spring of 1981. The trade paperback, published by Berkley in April 1982, was on the Times bestseller list for 16 weeks. And themass market edition, with some 800,000 copies in print, hopped onto the list earlier this month.  Ironically, it appears on the list at a tie when few other science-fiction titles are represented, even though science fictionis a perennially strong category on the various Times lists.
Like Louis L'Amour, a current best-selling author in hard-cover, Mr. Herbert developed his craft in paperback. After writing a novel published in hard-cover in 1956, the former West Coast journalist put in along apprenticeship and built a loyal following by writing more than 20 books for a half-dozen paperback houses. "God Emperor of Dune" is the fourth book in his series about the fictional locales.  Last year, for instance, he published "The White Plague," a novel about a madman who unleashes a plague in Ireland, England and Libya.  Mr. Herbert has a new book on the way titled "The Lazarus Effect," but readers will have to wait for fall to discover its setting.
 
A LONG LIFE
IF the title of George Burns's new book isn't enough to tempt you to plunk down $11.95 - it's called "How To Live To Be 100 - Or More: The Ultimate Diet, Sex and Exercise Book" - perhaps the book's dedication will convine you that the 87-year-old celebrity may really have stumbled onto something. It reads: "This book is dedicated to the widows of my last six doctors."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company

987 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

May 5, 1983, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

400 Former Polish Internees Reported to Resettle in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

The State Department said today that as many as 400 Poles interned after the crackdown on the Solidarity union had left Poland and had been resettled in the United States.
Alan D. Romberg, a spokesman for the department, said the United States had made no agreement with the Polish Government to accept them as refugees. 
''Those former internees who decide they cannot continue to live in their own country because of political persecution by the regime there are being assisted in applying for refugee status at the U.S.  refugee-reprocessing facility in Frankfurt,'' Mr. Romberg said.
He said the resettlement was being carried out with the cooperation of West Germany, adding that former internees had also been resettled in Western Europe, Canada and Australia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company

988 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

April 24, 1982, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Around the World;
Austria Says U.S. Agrees To Take Polish Refugees

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, April 23

Interior Minister Erwin Lanc said today that the United States had agreed to help Austria resolve its Polish refugee problem by accepting 1,000 of the Poles every month.
Mr. Lanc, who returned two days ago from a trip to the United States and Canada, told reporters that both countries had expressed a readiness to cooperate with Austria. Besides the United States quota, he said Canada would accept 3,500 by the end of this year.
More than 25,000 Poles sought asylum in Austria last year. The Austrian authorities believe another 15,000 are in the country on tourist visas.
 
---
GENEVA, April 23 (Reuters) - The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said today that 47,000 Poles were seeking political asylum in West Europe and that another 90,000 were applying for residence permits or extending their tourist visas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company

989 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

February 5, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

UNHELPFUL MESSAGES FOR POLISH REFUGEES

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 279 words

To the Editor:
I read David Shribman's Jan. 24 news article, ''U.S. Cool to Giving More Poles Visas,'' with disillusionment and disbelief.  I am one of the few lucky ones who were granted refugee visas at the U.S. Consulate in Vienna before the crackdown on Dec. 13. I am a member of the now-illegal Polish students' or ganization known as N.Z.S. (Independent Students' Union) - ''the nest of counterrevolutionary forces,'' in the words o f the Polish regime's Newspeak.
Mr. Shribman says unidentified Administration officials do not want Polish refugees in Vienna ''to act in a hasty manner.'' The gist of their argument is that the refugees should believe once again that the Communist system can be reformed, so that they will eventually return to normal lives in their native country - after leaving refugee camps that are probably full of the regime's informers.
I can easily understand why those officials insist on anonymity. I, too, wouldn't disclose my name if I were to tell this to the thousands of desperate people. It's like saying to these refugees, as well as to thousands of Solidarity and N.Z.S. activists now in jail: ''Take it easy, guys; we in free America believe that the bad guys out there will finally understand their mistakes and admit that they were onl y kidding.''
The people living in the Austrian camps have already made their decision. It makes no sense to argue that, for the sake of those undecided, the Administration must not encourage anybody to apply for a U.S. visa.
Ironically, a line right beneath Mr. Shribman's article appealed to Times readers to ''Remember the Neediest.''
WOJCIECH A. WILCZAK, Jersey City, Jan. 24, 1982

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company

990 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

December 6, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE AGENCY TO ASSIST 193,000 NEXT YEAR

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 5

An agency formed by 16 governments in 1951 to assist World War II refugees and displaced persons in Western Europe has approved plans to move about 193,000 victims of the world's continuing turmoils to new homelands next year.
The decision came Wednesday at the end of a two-day session that marked the 30th anniversary of the formation of the agency, now known as the Intergovernmental Committee for Migration.
The present global scope of its activities was not foreseen in 1951 when the United States, Canada and Australia joined 13 Western European and Latin American nations at the founding conference in Brussels. 
By 1963 the agency was helping the first waves of Cubans fleeing the regime of Fidel Castro and Tibetans fleeing the Chinese takeover of their homeland. But it was not until 1980 that the member countries struck the world "European" from the original title of the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration.
Though independent of the United Nations, the agency was established to render assistance that would complement the primarily legal protection provided by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
Last July the number of people the migration agency had assisted since 1952 passed the three million mark.
The first major new refugee crisis that the committee was called on to face after its founding was the outpouring of Hungarians in 1956-57 when Soviet tanks ended their revolt. The agency helped 180,000 of them move on to permanent homes, mostly overseas, after they had reached asylum first in Austria and Yugoslavia.
Although some of the founder nations withdrew from the committee over the years, the number of member governments expanded steadily without changing its basic Western and Latin American composition.  Even with the departure of Malta at the end of this year, the member nations will number 29. Thirteen other countries, including former members, hold observer status and collaborate closely with the organization.
 
Much of the Budget Given by U.S.
The United States has played a major role since the start and underwrites one-third of the budget. All but one of the six directors the committee has had to date have been Americans.
Now holding the top position is James L. Carlin, a 60-year-old former State Department official long experienced in refugee and migration affairs.
Although the committee's efforts on behalf of refugees fleeing their homelands have captured the most attention, the agency also has the important function of helping find the skilled workers and professionals willing to migrate to the third world, mostly to Latin America, where they are needed to speed development.
Vietnamese and other Indochinese refugees are expected once again to form the largest group, 135,000, among the worldwide total of 193,000 asylum-seekers that the committee expects to help in 1982.
The organization estimates at 45,000 the number of Soviet Jews, who first reach the West in Austria, and other migrants from the Soviet bloc who will require aid in 1982 to move on to countries or resettlement. This is 10,000 more than in 1981, mainly because of the growing number of Poles who want to start a new life abroad because of the unsettled conditions at home.
The committee's budget for 1982 has been set at $133 million, but the member countries are due to provide through their annual assessments only $7.4 million, a figure unchanged from 1981, covering the costs of administration by a regular staff of 300.
The balance of nearly $126 million in expenditures on operational programs and the special staff they require is covered by voluntary contributions from governments and private sources.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

991 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

October 14, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE OTHER REFUGEES

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

To the Editor:
 The Sept. 28 Op-Ed article on Somalia maintained that a total of about 2.1 million Somalis and Oromo have fled the Ogaden and now live in Somalia. However, before the present conflict started, only about one million people inhabited the Ogaden region.  Very few Oromo ever lived there. 
he Oromo, one of the largest ethnic groups in Africa, account for 60 percent of Ethiopia's population. However, the Amhara, Ethiopia's ruling minority, do not recognize the Oromo (whom they call Galla), because to do so would focus international attention on ethnic conflict within the empire. The Amhara, who constitute less than 15 percent of the empire's population but have ruled since the 19th century, have systematically driven the Oromo from their fertile lands and subjected them to torture, imprisonment, forced conscription and execution.
The Oromo refugees with whom I spoke at the August meeting of the Seventh Congress of the Union of Oromo Students in North America left Ethiopia for various reasons. Some were wanted by the police for teaching the Oromo language in village schools. Some had been jailed and tortured on suspicion of belonging to Oromo political organizations. Others decided to leave Ethiopia after a close friend or family member had been killed or jailed ''indefinitely.''
Recently stepped-up military action by Ethiopia's junta has caused still more to flee. Last April and May Reuters and the Scandinavian missionary magazine Vart Land independently reported that the military had sprayed flammable chemicals over an Oromo-populated valley in southern Ethiopia and then ignited the chemicals with rockets and incendiary devices launched from helicopter gunships.  Besides the destruction of animals, buildings and crops, more than 2,000 Oromo were killed and more than 20,000 fled the area.
In the past, the Ethiopian Government has asked the European Economic Community and the United Nations for funds to settle ''unoccupied'' areas, such as this one, with Amhara colonists.
Clearly, to understand the causes of people fleeing the Ethiopian empire one must consider more than the Ogaden border dispute.  JASON W. CLAY Director of Research Cultural Survival Inc.  Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 2, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

992 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

August 23, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CAMP IN GREECE A HALFWAY POINT FOR REFUGEES

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: LAVRION, Greece, Aug. 18

Twenty-year-old Teresa, from Gdansk, Poland, has been waiting here for seven months to get clearance to begin a new life in Toronto.
Teresa, who asked that her last name not be used, says she left Poland because of economic hardships and the fears of a Soviet military intervention. She lives in a refugee camp in this dusty coastal town, 40 miles southeast of Athens. With her are more than a hundred other refugees, mostly from Eastern Europe and the Middle East. 
Almost daily, either individually or in groups, refugees cross Greece's borders on foot from Albania, Yugoslavia or Bulgaria or swim across the Maritsa River from Turkey, or simply arrive here with passports.
For most of the 2,500 refugees who arrive every year, the Lavrion camp is a halfway point between their former homelands and what they hope will be a better life. Most have come in search of a democratic system of government, religious freedom, or simply - as one puts it - ''because they want a full refrigerator.'' Most are heading for the United States, Canada or Australia. For all, the most tormenting aspect is the uncertain wait.
 
Speeding Up of Process Sought
''We want a quickening of the process,'' says a former Ethiopian civil servant who has drifted through various countries and has spent five years trying to find a new home. ''I was approved to go to the United States in March, but I am still here. This waiting can drag me into mental sickness. All I want is to be a loyal American citizen.''
Foreign Minister Constantine Mitsotakis of Greece said, ''Greece has always been a country of asylum, and will continue its policy of giving asylum to anyone who requests it, without discrimination as to their nationality or the social regime from which they come.''
He says the only delaying factor as far as Greece is concerned is in the checks it carries out to determine whether those who arrive are foreign agents posing as refugees, but he concedes that this has rarely proved to be the case.
Lesley Goodyear, representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, says that ''the Greek approach has been more than generous.'' He says most people coming for political reasons are granted asylum and anyone whose request is refused has the right to an appeal.
 
Biggest Problem Is Boredom
The Lavrion center consists of a series of fairly new, if somewhat sparse rooms, designed to house either families or individual refugees, a dining hall, a television room and two classrooms for the four hours of English lessons provided each day.
The refugees seem generally satisfied with the services provided and there are no restrictions on their movement. But they worry about their families back home and most fear retribution if their names were to appear in the press.
''The biggest problem is boredom,'' says a Rumanian computer programmer, ''and it is particularly upsetting when someone leaves before you, although you have been waiting longer.''
None of the organizations involved feel they can do anything to speed up the process. Ralph Johnson, an immigration attache at the United States Embassy, says that immigration formalities are completed in a short time.
''The problem is to find sponsors for these people in the United States, and that has nothing to do with us,'' he says. ''It is up to the church organizations and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to do that.''
Mr. Goodyear, the United Nations official, says the problem of finding sponsors has been aggravated by the recent increase in Vietnamese and Cuban refugees in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

993 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 8, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Around the World;
U.S. Accepts 1,100 Poles Who Stayed in Austria

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, July 7

The United States has accepted some 1,100 Polish emigres in the last 10 months and may allocate more money to help refugees resettle in the West, an American diplomat said today.
The diplomat, Randolph M. Bell, who is the State Department's coordinator for refugees, said the United States ''was doing everything possible within the framework of its immigration laws to ease the troubled refugee situation in this small neutral country.''
He referred to an appeal by Interior Minister Erwin Lanc of Austria, who asked the United States, Canada and Australia to increase their immigration quotas because of the influx of emigres from Poland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company

994 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

September 20, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE QUOTA IS CUT BY 14,700 FOR NEXT FISCAL YEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

The Carter Administration announced a reduction today in the number of refugees who may legally enter the United States next year, largely because of the recent heavy inflow of Cuban and Haitian refugees.
Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the new refugee quota would be 217,000, 14,700 fewer than this year. The cost of the refugee program for the fiscal year 1981, he said, will be $690 million. 
A report submitted to the committee by the State Department office for refugee affairs said that the influx of more than 122,000 Cubans and 6,000 Haitians had produced an ''extraordinary emergency'' in South Florida, requiring Federal aid to the state and local authorities.
Mr. Civiletti told the Senate panel that the United States was doing ''everything legally possible to reduce the entries,'' but he predicted that border violations would continue ''unless we want to become a police state.''
Under questioning from the committee members and its chairman, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, Mr. Civiletti and Victor H. Palmieri, the State Department coordinator for refugee affairs, described the efforts to halt the inflow of illegal entrants by military and judicial means.
The Attorney General said the Coast Guard had seized 1,400 small boats, but added that the passengers could not be forced to return in most cases because the vessels were not seaworthy.
He said that about 100 Cubans and Haitians were still arriving in Florida each day, despite Coast Guard efforts to halt the boats. At the height of the influx last spring there were 1,000 to 2,000 new arrivals each day.
The Justice Department has brought indictments against 270 persons for bringing illegal entrants from Cuba and Haiti to the United States, and is preparing 500 other cases for prosecution, Mr.  Civiletti said. The department is also investigating groups in Florida that have allegedly been organizing the boat trips for the illegal entrants.
 
168,000 Indochinese in 1981
Indochinese will make up the largest number of refugees under the quota system; 168,000 will be allowed in the United States in the fiscal year 1981. Mr. Civiletti said large numbers of Indochinese refugees in such countries as Thailand threatened the stability of American allies in Southeast Asia.
The breakdown for the coming fiscal year also includes 37,500 from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, 4,500 from the Near East and 3,000 from Africa. The biggest regional reduction came in Latin America, where the quota recommendation is 4,000, down from 20,500 this year.
Mr. Civiletti said the reduction ''reflects the massive influx of Cubans to the United States in contravention of both U.S. law and our guiding principle of orderly processing of refugee admissions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company

995 of 999 DOCUMENTS

The New York Times

July 10, 1980, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THOUSANDS OF VIETNAM REFUGEES ARE TRAPPED IN CHINA

BYLINE: By JAMES P. STERBA

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, July 9

Because they headed north on foot instead of south by boat, thousands of refugees from Vietnam have found themselves trapped against their will on Chinese state farms and communes, with fading hopes of ever being reunited with friends and relatives who have been or are being resettled in North America, Australia or Europe.
In interviews, refugee officials from the United States, Canada and Australia said they no longer considered the refugees in China to be refugees since they had been living there for more than six months.  The Hong Kong Government has begun deporting as illegal migrants those refugees from Vietnam who have spent six months or more in China.
''Many recipient countries take the view that the refugees in China have exhausted their right to seek asylum elsewhere,'' said Ulrich Freyschmidt, the Hong Kong resettlement officer for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. ''I know of no plans for any major resettlement operations for the refugees in China.'' 
The refugees have been in China for more than six months because of China's generosity in accepting them without a fuss, the refugees' patience in the face of Peking's sluggish bureaucracy and the relative indifference of international agencies.
 
260,000 Fled Into China
Some 260,000 refugees from Vietnam have fled north into China in the last three years. Most were ethnic Chinese from northern Vietnam who were willing to settle in China's southern provinces, fishing and farming as they had done in Vietnam.
Thousands more, however, were ethnic Chinese merchants from southern Vietnam and shopkeepers from northern Vietnam who chose to flee north into China for temporary haven instead of risking their lives in small boats in the South China Sea. About 30,000 ethnic Vietnamese also fled north into China to escape banishment to the socalled new economic zones.
In interviews with Western journalists who visited their camps and farms in southern China last fall, dozens of the refugees said they had gone to China because they had no other choice and that they wanted to move on as soon as possible to other countries, most of them to the United States.
Since then, Chinese officials have compiled a list of some 18,000 refugees who said they wanted to leave China. Last year Chinese officials said the refugees were free to settle in China permanently or to move to other countries that would take them.
 
Other Countries Uninterested
The other countries, however, have shown little interest. Their refugee officials said they had their hands full resettling the other 360,000 Vietnamese refugees who had fled by boat to Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines.
Unlike China, these nations were reluctant to accept any Vietnamese refugees. Malaysia and Singapore towed the refugees' boats out to sea. Hong Kong authorities initially refused to allow them to land.  Only with guarantees from international agencies and major nations that the refugees would be fed, sheltered and resettled at no cost to the host government did neighboring nations allow the refugees to land and stay in camps.
China, on the other hand, quietly accepted 260,000 refugees, feeding and sheltering them at Government expense. Instead of being confined to camps and detention centers, the refugees were integrated into state farms, fishing villages and cooperatives, and other existing work units.
The Chinese Government did not seek international aid to help the refugees until last year, when it received $6.1 million from the United Nations. This year the United Nations provided $9.5 million.
 
Interviews Not Yet Begun
The tiny United Nations office in Peking, established late last year, has not yet begun to interview any of the 18,000 refugees in China who said they wanted to leave. There is some fear among refugee officials that once word spread among the refugees that emigration might be possible, thousands more would try to get their names on the list.
But since many nations have decided to lump them in with ordinary Chinese seeking to emigrate, their chances are slim. Under Canadian immigration laws, for example, even refugees with brothers or sisters living in Canada might not be allowed to join them, said Gerry K. Campbell, first secretary of the Canadian mission here.
''Under our immigration act a refugee cannot become resettled in another country,'' he said.  Australia takes the same view. But Peter Hardie, senior immigration officer for the Australian Commission here, said that exceptions were made in cases where close relatives were involved. He said one refugee living in China got word to Australian authorities that his children were living in Australia. After an interview and medical treatment he was cleared to join his children there.
 
Reunification Program Proposed
Through the United Nations refugee program, at least one international relief agency has made approaches to Chinese authorities about establishing a family reunification program to pick out refugees with close relatives living elsewhere and reunite them.
Until recently many frustrated refugees in China simply left their farms and communes and tried to make their way to Hong Kong. But China and Hong Kong have stepped up border surveillance to stem the flow of thousands of ordinary Chinese who attempt to sneak into this colony each week.
Of the 5,000 people who have arrived by boat in Hong Kong so far this year claiming Vietnam refugee status, more than 2,000 have been rejected because they had lived in China for more than six months and were officially considered to be Chinese residents. Hong Kong authorities are awaiting permission from China to send them back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Photo of refugees

TYPE: Analysis

Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company

